A corresponding change in the music industry surreptitiously grew along with the technological innovations.
The resulting cultural shift created fertile ground for a new folk culture of music creation (Bakan, 2010).
Using mute controls, the user may listen to individual instrument tracks, and one may jump to any place in a piece of music by tapping the screen.
Guitar Lab is an app that streams video guitar lessons with standard notation, tablature and text directly to an iPhone.
Recording school or community based rehearsals using a phone or pad device and emailing the resulting digital audio files to choir members to assess their performance could become common practice in the very near future.
The recent release of Glee, based on the television show, adds another dimension to the participatory music making process, enabling singers to perform with their peers around the world, record their performances, and receive scores (i.e., points) on their performances.
Guitar Hero is one of the most popular computer games of the past decade.
These toys and games enable non-musicians to have a music experience.
Glee is perhaps the best example of this phenomenon.
In a final twist, Leaf Trombone combines music playing capabilities with an on-line competitive gaming environment.
These new capabilities transform GarageBand into a virtual orchestra of music instruments.
These music ideas are like Lego building blocks for creative composition.
This interface is not only a game changer,8 it is a learning changer.
GarageBand on the iPad is a recording device, a compositional tool, a distribution network, and a suite of music instruments.
While some may believe that there is no questioning of our current practices, we posit a need to reconsider and expand our curricula and pedagogies to include digital media.
Just as inventions such as the piano, harmonica, and synthesizer had a lasting impact on music making, the ability to play real music using music apps is changing modern sonic expression.
Prensky (2001) suggests that digital immigrants speak digital with a form of accent.
New content may contain and reflect aspects of old content, yet it extends content development by virtue of the fluidity of digital systems.
We must look closely at our curricula.
Applying Gouzouasis and LaMondes (2005) model for understanding music making, which is founded upon the precepts of the four-part tetrad,12 Individual tetrads are neither exclusive nor definitive (p.
For example, practitioners of the influential Reggio Emilia approach (Edwards, Gandini, & Forman, 1993) understand children to be complete contributors to their knowledge making.
Adults and children exchange information as equal contributors to learning.
The Reggio classroom is not a classroom, it is an ateliera workshop.
YOUTH AS DIGITAL NATIVES: PEDAGOGICAL IMPLICATIONS Adolescents of today who aspire to learn music, who are highly engaged with music making, are more than mere amateursthey are digital natives, expert gamers, self-motivated learners, and self-directed learners.
In consideration of the contribution that music participation makes to the quality of life, Gates (1991) recognized the need for recruiting strategies of music group members by examining music learning outcomes in school based music programs.
Since that paper was published 20 years ago, the music learning landscape has changed dramatically.
To think holistically, we need a different language to describe the music making of today.
They may be classified as amateurs by our professions traditional standards, however, these classifications and accompanying terminology may not be applicable to contemporary music making.
Given how rapidly music learning has changed in the first decade of the new millennium, qualitative distinctions between amateurs and professionals, like those between formal and informal music learning, are now rendered artificial or at best synthetic, and in a sense even apothetic.22 In other words, the meanings and hierarchical relationships of these terms and concepts need to be reexamined and called into question in digital music making contexts.
We are neither focused on the relative merits of the two spellings of the term at hand, nor the philosophical positions of the authors noted above.
A trombonist can change pitch either through use of the slide or by changing the composure of the lips (i.e., the embouchure), which alters the direction of the airstream that enters the mouthpiece.
Thus, by adjusing the embouchure, multiple pitches can be played with the slide left in one single position.
Humans play digital games, they also play music instruments, thus we make the not so abstract leap to considering these apps and devices as playful game changers.
20 It is mind boggling to consider that only six countries manufacture close to 90% of the worlds music and audio gearthe USA, China, Taiwan, Japan, Indonesia, and Korea.
It is interesting to consider that five of the top guitar manufacturers are Asian countries given that we do not have precise data on guitar usage in Asian countries; moreover, China is the most populated country in the world today.
Danny Bakan is doctoral student at The University of British Columbia.
A lifelong music learner as well as teacher, he was adjunct faculty at Ryerson University's School of Early Childhood Education, has recorded two albums of original and folk music that have been broadcast on CBC (Canada) and NPR (USA), and has performed at major folk festivals across Canada and the USA.
May Day Colloquium on Ethics and Music Education, Montclair University, June 19, 2010.
British Journal of Educational Technology, 39(5), 775-786.
My music, their music and the irrelevance of music education.
The hundred languages of children: The Reggio Emilia approach to early childhood education.
May Day Colloquium on Ethics and Music Education, Montclair University, June 19, 2010.
Arts Education Policy Review, 107(5), 3-9.
International Journal of Education & the Arts, 6(4).
Music as a medium: What's the message?
Toronto, ON: Doubleday.
Exploring the contexts of informal learning.
Design patterns and business models for the next generation of software.
Generation M2: Media in the lives of 8 to 18-year-olds.
Bardonia, NY: Media Materials, Inc. Vakeva, L. (2010).
