The following spe- cific categories of media were chosen for research review: television and movies, music and rock videos, advertis- ing, video games, and computers and the Internet.
The authors have been asked to place an asterisk before the 5 or 6 most seminal references.
Media research since has focused on content and viewing patterns.
CHILD ADOLESC.
She is also Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore.
In 1996 the American Medical Associations brochure Physician Guide to Media Violence (Walsh et al., 1996) further highlighted the direct correlation between media exposure and violent behavior and called on physicians to incorporate a media history into the routine assessment of patients as part of an effort to stem the growing epidemic of violence in America.
The first, Big World, Small Screen: The Role of Television in American Society (Huston et al., 1992), began as a review by the American Psychological Association of research- based studies done in the previous 20 years in behavioral psychology and communications journals, as well as gov- ernment surveys and studies.
The analysis revealed a positive and significant correlation between television violence and aggressive behavior, regardless of age.
CHILD ADOLESC.
PSYCHIATRY, 40 :4 , APRIL 2001 393 may encourage the subsequent development of callous attitudes or behavior toward women among males so exposed.
Television viewing also occurs earlier than other forms of media, often beginning before age 2 years.
In an effort to understand the content of American television, the National Television Violence Study (Federman, 1996, 1997, 1998) rigorously examined more than 10,000 hours of programming across a variety of channels, cable and noncable, at all hours of the day in three consecutive years from 1994 1997.
There was surprising consistency of the data from year to year, with an alarming amount of violence pre- sent.
The type of violence and the context was also consistent, with 26% of violent interactions involving the use of weapons, 38% of violent acts being committed by attractive perpetrators, more than 50% of violent incidents showing no apparent pain associated with the violence, and almost 75% of violent acts involv- ing no evident remorse, criticism, or penalty for the vio- lence.
Trauma Symptoms.
The data from their survey of 2,245 students, grades 3 through 8, showed that children who watched more than 6 hours of television per day reported more trauma symptoms and more violent behaviors.
CHILD ADOLESC.
Substance Abuse.
In the most recent Kaiser Foundation study (Kunkel et al., 1999), described as the most extensive study ever conducted of sexual con- duct on television, more than 1,300 shows across 10 chan- nels were analyzed.
The strategies shown for resolving conflict were diverse, and parents and children across family types tended to display respect and concern for one another.
The data showed that more than 30% of the conflict situations involved parents and children, 19% involved spouses, and 13% involved siblings.
Surveys have shown that many children are exposed to frightening movies such as Poltergeist, Jaws, Halloween, and Friday the Thirteenth.
Cantor (1991) summarized this research as demonstrating that transitory fright responses occur in a substantial proportion of children and that intense and even debilitating reactions affect a small proportion of particularly susceptible viewers.
However, children at different ages were upset by different aspects of the coverage as described by parents, with younger MEDIA RESEARCH REVIEW J. AM.
CHILD ADOLESC.
Field surveys of real-world disasters and highly pub- licized events, such as the space shuttle Challenger disaster (Cantor and Omdahl, 1991), have generally shown mild and transient responses in young viewers.
(1993) surveyed 247 high school students in two Australian government high schools about their musical preferences and aspects of their psychological health and lifestyle.
The article did, however, identify 11% of the sample who claimed that listening made them feel sadder and postulated that it is perhaps this group that is at most risk for suicidal behavior.
The authors concluded that the greater the extent of heavy metal subculture, the higher the suicide rate.
CHILD ADOLESC.
Waite et al.
Their study showed a clear racial difference, with white viewers almost twice as likely as African-American viewers to see the video Papa Dont Preach as being about teenage pregnancy, whereas African- American viewers were twice as likely to see it as a story about fatherdaughter relationships.
(1997a) analyzed the content of 518 music videos from MTV, VH1 (Video Hits One), CMT (Country Music Television), and BET (Black Entertainment Net- work).
In more than 80%, the aggressor was an attractive role model, with males more than three times as likely to be aggressors.
CHILD ADOLESC.
The relationship of receptivity to advertising and suscep- tibility to smoking was stronger than the relationship of family or peer smoking and susceptibility, indicating that advertising is a more powerful influence than exposure to peer or family smoking.
Four recent research articles, with large sample sizes and different geographical locales, have looked more specifically at the relationship between tobacco promotional items and smoking susceptibility: Altman et al.
(1997), survey of 1,265 rural New Hampshire and Vermont youths aged 1019 years; Pierce et al.
The content of almost half of the games was violent, and 40 of the 47 most popular video games were violent.
Very few research articles have examined the effects of this billion-dollar industry on children and adolescents.
CHILD ADOLESC.
These few studies that look at the teaching ability of video games do not dismiss their capacity to teach violence.
David Grossman described in his book On Killing: The Psychological Cost of Learning to Kill in War and Society (1996), how the military train soldiers to kill by using video games much like those being played daily by millions of children.
McGee and DeBernardo (1999), in their article describing school avengers, a profile of the recent school killers, noted that almost all were com- puter-savvy and frequented sites where they could obtain violent, anarchist-oriented material.
Excessive media use, particularly where the content is violent, gender-stereotyped, sexually explicit, drug- or alcohol- influenced, or filled with human tragedy, skews the childs world view, increases high-risk behaviors, and alters his/her capacity for successful, sustained human relationships.
CHILD ADOLESC.
With the growing evidence that certain media use is included as a risk factor for acting out violently, as well as for other high-risk behaviors, the standard of practice has evolved over the past decade to warrant incorporation of the media history into everyday clinical practice.
Washington, DC: Bureau of Tobacco, Alcohol, and Firearms Atkin C, Neurendorf K, McDermott S (1983), The role of alcohol advertis- ing in excessive and hazardous drinking.
In: Rethinking Communication, Vol 2: Paradigm Exemplers, Dervin L, Grossberg, B, OKeefe, Wartella E, eds.
J Broadcasting Electronics Media 34:421442 Cantor J, Mares ML, Oliver MD (1993), Parents and childrens emotional reactions to televised coverage of the Gulf War.
Pediatrics 95:295297 Committee on Communications, American Academy of Pediatrics (1995c), Media violence.
J Natl Cancer Inst 87:15381545 *Federman J (1996), National Television Violence Study I. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage *Federman J (1997), National Television Violence Study II.
CHILD ADOLESC.
CHILD ADOLESC.
Am J Public Health 84:297299 Martin G, Clarke M, Pearce C (1993), Adolescent suicide: music preference as an indicator of vulnerability.
Westport, CT: Greenwood Press Singer MI, Anglin TM, Song L, Lunghofer L (1995), Adolescents exposure to violence and associated symptoms of psychological trauma.
Psychol Bull 109:371383 Zillman D, Bryant J, Huston A, eds (1994), Media, Children and the Family: Social Scientific, Psychodynamic, and Clinical Perspectives.
