When South Africa achieved democratic rule in 1994, a new system began to evolve for children in conflict with the law.
These diversion programs have come to be used as pre-trial options, obviating the need for court appearances and criminal trials (Sloth-Nielsen, 2003).
This study also found a high rate of content retention from the program among the children and reported that the intervention had improved family functioning, social adaptation, and the childrens ability to resist negative peer group influences (Muntingh, 1998) Insofar as they are all non-custodial at this point, diversion programs appear to be cost effective (Sloth-Nielsen, 2003) By 2001 the National Directorate of Public Prosecutions estimated that prosecutors were diverting more than 30,000 children per annum away from criminal trials to a range of available programs around the country.
Importantly, community-based programs also link friends and families of high-risk children.
This system started with the appointment of a project committee of the South African Law Reform Commission in 1996.
In fact, documented instances of bad practice have occurred (e.g., children being humiliatingly stigmatized by being painted and paraded in front of communities).
Our DIME program targets children in conflict with the law in these two cities.
Our approach is student- centered, not performance-centered.
This approach aims to achieve self-growth, self-knowledge, and flow such that musical challenges and skill are balanced, allowing all children (according to their abilities) to experience engrossment (focus) and musical enjoyment (Elliott 1995; Csikszentmihalyi, 1990).
We promote childrens identifications with cultural heritages to foster strong cultural pride and self-respect.
Our DIME approach aims to restore dignity for the individual.
Program Design When children are referred to our DIME program, they join an African marimba and djembe band.
Locally made djembes and hand percussion were also acquired.
The choice of music teacher was guided by the intent to build on the strength of the community, tapping the skills of local musicians.
The mentor models and cultivates trust, confidence, dependability, and adult-level decision-making skills.
The first group in the pilot program consisted of 14 children, aged 16 and below.
In our diversion programs, our mentees have a unique opportunity to enrich their cultural lives and experience their musical traditions.
We aim to enable our mentees to preserve and construct their cultural and personal identities by encouraging our children to connect with diverse cultures, celebrate old traditions, and engage in new forms of musical creativity, improvisation, and composition Pilot Project A pilot project was established in 2001 to launch the start of our program, which has (over the ensuing years) incorporated additional groups of children diverted from the criminal justice system.
Teachers use some traditional teaching styles, including repeated demonstrations and imitation.
No technology, audiovisual aids, textbooks, notation, or other learning media are used.
The underlying premise of our program is to offer respect for the origins and intents of these specific musical practices.
These groups tend to encourage delinquency and provide opportunities for such acts (Dishion & Patterson, 1997).
The supportive nature of those relationships with non-delinquent peers is significant: adolescents and young adults with conduct disturbances who form close relationships with others who do not have such problems are much more likely to grow out of their conduct disturbances.
The group context offers: learning to communicate more effectively; expressing emotions; managing anger; and resolving conflicts.
Our program promotes the acceptance and equality of all players.
An adolescent with positive self-esteem is less likely to join delinquent peers, give in to peer pressure, be aggressive, and/or use illicit drugs.
They showcase a students achievements and promote motivational goals.
You must carry on with your music, you must stop doing bad things, be yourself.
Family relationships improved as certain students began: asking permission before going out; assisting regularly with household chores; not staying out late; demonstrating increased respect; and acting responsibly.
One parent reported: Hes being more honest and I love the project and I am grateful to you guys.
Parents were positive about their children making music rather than shoplifting (as they were previously prone to do after hours).
The children felt that playing the marimbas provided them with a sense of purpose.
Most felt they were encouraged to stay out of trouble by being engaged in making music rather than crime.
Whenever I thought about the drums, I felt I could be a musician.
The early South African groups have not graduated from the program.
I like to practice a lot.
Recently, students from the original pilot phase (now having reached up to age 18) announced that they were ready to perform on a professional level for the tourist industry and were seeking assistance in acquiring their own set of instruments in order to embark on careers.
The recidivism rate for the pilot group in the 6 months post-program was 9.09 %.
The evaluators took particular note of students remarks stating they constantly think about the marimbas.
In other words, cognitive restructuring is a significant element for individual and community integration.
An adolescent who is developing these skills is less susceptible to negative emotional states and more likely to maintain healthy relationships with others.
Perceptions of parental interest and support can lead to feelings of self- worth and nurture, feelings that are integral to positive adolescent psychosocial development (Nolen- Hoeksema, 2001).
Discovering their ability to learn to play music as unique, essential, and contributing members of a group, allows the children to positively see themselves as team workers and active participants in an enjoyable and encouraging social pursuit.
Challenging situations can arise and the mentors need both ongoing training and access to support.
While their family and social circle may be presenting problems, the children are able to experience a world inhabited by caring, positive people.
The vision of our program is to take children on a road of lifelong musical enjoyment, enrichment, and learning.
Future research should observe the long-term political and socioeconomic implications of implementing music programs for court- adjudicated children.
The established model has the potential to be replicated across the world and to incorporate additional collaborations.
