The data has been qualitatively analysed.
The increasing cultural diversity appearing in the educational reality of Spain in recent decades has led to a necessary rethinking of the principles of music education in general education.
The complexity of the factors involved in shaping the musical diversity of students exceeds the control of the philosophers and educational theorists, let alone music teachers and practitioners (Green, 2005, p. 77).
Tel.: +34 964729882 E-mail address: cabedoa@uji.es Available online at www.sciencedirect.com 2216 Alberto Cabedo Mas and Maravillas Daz Gmez / Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences 46 ( 2012 ) 2215 2219 the differences between the various musical expressions.
For this reason, these authors are part of the state of the art addressed by this study.
However, we believe that considering opinions, knowledge and experiences from different perspectives enriches the discussion about the current theories of music education, particularly those theories that provide a vision of music as a means of expression and connection between people.
This question has been asked and answered, in some cases in writing and in others orally, through a semi- structured, in-depth interview, transcribed afterwards.
They all give interesting data about this particular issue.
Indeed, these 19 responses came from participants who carry on their main educational activities in 12 different countries.
3. Music teaching and musical diversity In the last few decades, music education has had to adapt to a changing and dynamic society.
Attempts to introduce Western popular musics into music education (Shepherd, Virden, Vulliamy, & Wishart, 1977, Swanwick, 1968, Vulliamy & Lee, 1976), in parallel with the incorporation of folk musics, including non- Western traditions (Small, 1977, Volk, 1998), were accompanied by a critical theoretical conceptualization attempting to decouple the value of musical styles associated with the autonomy from the social contexts surrounding them.
This idea, along with the search for authenticity of the practices and methods of learning music has led in recent years to the promotion of the incorporation of some elements of informal learning in Western formal educational settings (Campbell, 1998; Feichas, 2010; Folkestad, 2005, 2006; Green, 2002, 2008; Jaffurs, 2004; Karlsen, 2010; music is based primarily on methods of transmitting musical knowledge that characteris Western popular music.
Any concern about the integration of particular identities should be based on a commitment to the recognition of this diversity.
Then recognizing where it is in the lives of the students.
N.O.: In the music classroom the more frequent attentions to diversity are related to: special needs (disability, handicap), ethnicities, languages, religion, emigration.
Each should be managed differently, since the learning pace of each student is different.
2218 Alberto Cabedo Mas and Maravillas Daz Gmez / Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences 46 ( 2012 ) 2215 2219 4.2.
A.O.: I consider very difficult for music teachers to pay attention to the diversity of students in music classrooms, promote integration and to recognize particular identities if they are strongly connected to the traditional teaching methods.
Otherwise, the student learns 4.3.
Making music in ensemble collectively may be that everyone T.R.: Much presentational musicking puts an emphasis on the individual student performer: on the skills needed by the individual soloist or ensemble and their abilities and needs (something rarely done, I fear).
This revolution in music education also allowed improving in the research of new ways of transmitting musical knowledge.
The need to adapt to the particular context is therefore increased, and music education must therefore evolve.
2219 Alberto Cabedo Mas and Maravillas Daz Gmez / Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences 46 ( 2012 ) 2215 2219 Secondly, the integration of musical identities, assuming authentic musical practices, will prepare and motivate students for their musical life beyond the music classroom.
Under ethical principles, these musical experiences may become activities that promote intersubjectivities and connections, enhancing coexistence between people.
Dillon, S. (2007).
Music, Meaning and Transformation.
Meaningful Music Making for Life . Newcastle: Cambridge Scholars Publishing.
Folkestad, G. (2005).
Music Education Research, 7(3), 279-287.
Folkestad, G. (2006).
Formal and informal learning situations or practices vs formal and informal ways of learning.
Green, L. (1988).
Manchester: Manchester University Press.
Aldershot: Ashgate.
Aldershot: Ashgate.
Tenerife: Sociedad para -EE).
London: Latimer.
Small, C. (1977).
Music, society, education: A radical examination of the prophetic function of music in Western, Eastern and African cultures with its impact on society and its use in education.
Popular music and the teacher.
futures.
Volk, T. M. (1998).
Music, Education, and Multiculturalism: Foundations and Principles.
