The first theme of value indicates that informally trained musicians are very esteemed members of society.
Green (2003) states: The case of popular music provides a clear example, insofar as it is understood, by contrast to classical music, as ephemeral, trivial, derivative, or commercial (p.
Folkestad (2006) states: Most research in music education has so far dealt with music training in institutional settings, such as schools, and is accordingly based, either implicitly or explicitly, on the assumption that musical learning results from sequenced, methodical exposure to music teaching within a formal setting.
In fact, none of the Fab Four knew how to read music (Roberts, 2002).
In the technologically savvy society we currently live in, these other musicians come in the form of a variety of formats, including live music, recorded music (radio, television, CDs, DVDs, MP3 files, computers, and online applications), and print-based materials (both traditional and electronic formats).
This is similar to the study by Soderman and Folkestad (2004), which shows that the creative process of making lyrics and composing music in the hip-hop genre are peer-directed and collective in character.
71).
1 No. 5; May 2011 3 On the other hand, non-music specialists may lack the proper language, terminology, and overall nomen clature in their perspective to come up with viable definitions.
The ideal scenario, therefore, was to tap into the perspectives of both music and non-music specialists.
All participants were in a second year, general elective undergraduate course in musical appreciation, which consisted of an almost equal split between music and non-music majors.
According to gender, the participants consisted of 24 males and 17 females, which is consistent with the gender ratios in Toronto secondary schools.
In addition, Darbyshire, MacDougall, and Schiller (2005) argue that using multiple methods is a valuable approach that does not merely duplicate data but also offers complementary insights and understandings that may be difficult to access through reliance on a single method of data collection (p.
The SDS was first devised by Osgood, Suci and Tannenbaum (1957), and is a simple and elegant scale (Korzenny and Korzenny (2005), where participants are asked to indicate their degree of preference among a set of bi- polar phrases or adjectives that best describe their own feelings towards a subject or issue (Majumdar, 2005).
The formulation of the ten questions was rooted in many of the discussions and personal experiences (Peterson, 2000) that I have had over the years on this topic, particularly those that generated rich and vibrant debate.
Many conversations also addressed the role that music plays within society and how formally trained and informally trained musicians fit into that role, which inspired question eight.
Typical of qualitative research (Merriam, 2002), the focus group is intended to generate a richly descriptive end product (p.
The focus group was audio recorded and transcribed, and only pseudonyms were used to identify participants in this study.
Hence, responses were clustered in the 5 to 9 range, clearly leaning towards the informal musician side of the semantic differential scale (see appendix two).
What kind of attitude?
Informal musicians obviously have drive, and they should be commended for that.
Mark: Like I said, I didnt mean to offend anybody sorry if I did.
That is what art is about -- at least I think so.
Informal, self- taught musicians are definitely more creative.
They just tend to play what sounds good, following their heart and feelings.
Author: Does this free spirited approach to composition actually provide a better foundation for creativity as the question states?
Many self-taught musicians cant read music, and they are forced to use their ear to learn songs.
In addition, Sara comments are also worth mentioning: I guess the informal musicians, kind of like street musicians, remind me of the Nike slogan a little bit they just do it!
Question four (which group is more likely to achieve personal satisfaction) also promotes the theme of non-conformity.
He did not like the whole classical approach.
Sara: Yes, I guess if you do not like classical music, you will not get much personal satisfaction from it.
Those piano books are like textbooks in a way.
6. Discussion This study has corroborated that there is meaning and significance in the informal approach to learning music through the themes of value, creativity, and non-conformity.
Winspur (1998) states: As children, aspiring pop and rock musicians do not suffer the same pressures as those children studying an instrument classically (p.
I find this rather ironic, since the music classroom is supposed to be a place where creativity and imagination is cultivated.
That is, the theme of non-conformity (as referenced in this study) is typical of many successful pop music artists.
Numerous public school music educators have marginalized a generation of youth with a music curriculum deeply imbued in western music and pedagogy.
In some cases, it is possible to achieve musical literacy trough self-teaching and peer-directed learning.
Formally Trained Musicians Informally Trained Musicians 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 International Journal of Humanities and Social Science Vol.
In Colwell, R., & Richardson, C., (Eds.), The new handbook of research on music teaching and learning, (pp.
Bowman, Wayne (2005).
Kruger, S.J.
In The impact of economic policies on poverty and income distribution: Evaluation techniques and tools.
Edited by Francois Bourguignon and Luiz A. Pereira da Silva.
Minneapolis, MN: Lerner Publishing.
In Clayton, M., Herbert, T., and Middleton, R. (Editors) The cultural study of music: a critical introduction.
Music Education Research, 6(3), 313-326.
Wiggington, James R. (2010).
27(1), 71-87.
