The report recognized the need for music specialist teachers in all primary schools.
This included: What is best practice and how is it maintained, supported, nurtured and given the status it deserves?
The identified need for the development and implementation of a particular music program to a group of special needs students.
Why now?
(Gill 2009) Your children are being discriminated against if they are not receiving a well- planned and properly taught music program at their schools.
Part 3 provides the research methodologies.
Music can bring school success to those students unsuccessful in other curricular subjects (multiple intelligences)music makes all school subjects more interesting, develops more effectively the right side of the brain, provides greatly enhanced communication skills and the ability to connect and apply learning across subject areas.
many Australian students miss out on effective music education because of the lack of equity of access; lack of quality of provision; and, the poor status of music in many schools.
Improve music education in schools through supportive principals and school leadership, adequately educated specialist teachers, increased time in the timetable, adequate facilities and equipment; (Augmenting the diminished 2005) It is important to never underestimate the power of music education.
They provide a set of common state-wide standards which schools use to plan student learning programs, assess student progress and report to parents.
(Gill 2009) exemplifies the problems associated with the VELS particularly in relation to the Arts and the generalized language used to provide a curriculum that is nonsensical and obviously not written by music educators, art educators or dance or drama educators.
Skills which are transferable across all areas of study such as thinking and communication are also included.
Hence if a student is doing well in music but not so in visual arts the two results are combined and the average is taken.
Student outcomes are only identified through Math and English and those outcomes are collected and made accessible to parents.
Methodology of music.
Music is for everyone Music educators know and believe that music is for everyone (Monsour, 2000), and with this philosophy specialists music educators enlist their skill to reach all students through music.
However, it is not children's cognitive skills that are of concern; it is their social and emotional skill deficits that are most troublesome.
These behaviours are becoming wider spread with a group of students who are deemed at risk.
Not only is it necessary to carefully analyse repertoire, but rehearsals should be planned to enable students to develop analytical competencies, gaining valuable insights into the song repertoire which in turn develop their understanding and enjoyment of the singing experience (Wis, 1998).
To ensure all students benefit from the experience of choir the choice of song is important from both a singing aspect and also for enjoyment.
8 Part 3 The research methodologies The reason I have chosen a qualitative methodology approach to the report is because it not only encapsulates a sense of empathy but enhances the use for applied practice in education.
There are limitations with this sort of methodology The qualitative data is in the form of words, pictures or objects whereas the quantitative data is in the form of numbers and statistics.
9 Part 4 Results 1. Overview of both schools including best practice.
Senior Choir Grade 5/6 1hour per week In school time compulsory Junior Choir Grade3/4 1 Hour per week In school time compulsory Extra Curricular Hand bells Instrumental grade 6 3x hour lessons during Lunchtime Recorder Club 1x hour lessons during lunchtime Performance Eisteddfods, Pembina Trails sings, Orff Day, Assembly performances, Extensive Community Performances Technology Music Ace 1 and 11 Program 2-6 10 2. Curriculum Discussion with Pembina Trails Specialist teachers.
The talk was based on the VELS.
The motivational strategies that were included in this Case Study included self esteem activities, encouraging the family to continue the musical work at home and with others and opportunities to work collaboratively in writing and performing songs.
After week one the subject was not seeing as much of the social worker and would visit me each day to ensure their ability to play on the drums.
After 15 weeks the student was trialed with other students to play in a band however this proved to be unsuccessful and was trialed again at a later date.
Goals were set to increase opportunities for cognitive, physical and sensory stimulation.
This was achieved through singing a welcome song each time I saw the students.
The programs were similar in their use of Kodaly, Solfege and Orff instruction.
Parents remain responsible for the tuition fees at Malvern Primary School enabling the students to develop their musical skills and continue the excellence into Secondary school.
The band also enabled students to perform together.
On further discussion with the group they all agreed that the language was clear and concise with detail on exactly what is expected.
The motivational strategies that were included in this Case Study included self esteem activities, encouraging the family to continue the musical work at home and with others and opportunities to work collaboratively in writing and performing songs.
In fact, the music didnt need to fall into conventional patterns or even use words; response to cries, screams and body movements by the students, all of which have rhythm and pitch and are susceptible to organization in musical terms.
The use of a music specialist can never replace music therapy however it can result in improving student outcomes particularly in the area of one student who noticeably had less violent outbursts after music sessions.
It would enable a knowledgeable discussion to take place with people who have differing ideas and opinions and invoke thought, change and improvement.
Educational teaching methods would be discussed, methodology discussed and resource material trialed and critiqued.
All of these initiatives can only benefit student outcomes.
Maybe when national bench marks for music are printed every two years will people start jumping up and down about the lack of music in some schools and the poor results.
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.
New York: Oxford University Press.
Music Teacher, 62(11), 16-17.
Music in Australia: Reflections on the past and present.
Trends in School Music Education Provision in Australia.
Swanwick, K. (1994).
Journal of Research in Music Education, 46 (2), 281-302.
