The first step of the data obtaining was the contact with the teacher, who was present in the class during all collection of data.
They performed a meta-analysis of 128 pro-environmental behavior research studies and introduced the subsequent six variables that are linked with responsible pro-environmental be- havior (Kollmuss & Agyeman, 2002).
On the basis of these facts, the envi- ronmental education is becoming an integral part of the education of any countrys youth.
The last one is cal- led Individual Sense of Responsibility which points people with a superior sense of responsibility are highly likely to involve in environmentally respon- sible behavior (Kollmuss & Agyeman).
Authors highlighted a childrens strong empathy towards certain aspects of nature particularly animals and trees.
Boyes, Stanisstreet, and Papantoniou (1999) investigated ideas of high school students about ozone layer.
They are documented in the literature as follows: First, researcher believed that drawing is a powerful instrument to gain insight about childrens thinking, emotions, experiences and perceptions (Malchiodi, 1998; Piaget, 1951; Piaget & Inhelder, 1967; Prokop & Francovicova, 2006).
According to Prokop and Fancovicova unlikely other data col- lection methods (clinical interviews, open ended YILMAZ, KUBIATKO, TOPAL / Czech Childrens Drawing of Nature 3113 questionnaires) to gain information about indivi- duals thinking, emotions, experiences and percep- tions, drawings are more objective and easier for quantification.
The one common research including drawing is the drawing of the tree, but it is in the psycholo- gical context, where the character of the tree dra- wing is connecting with the perceptions of human.
Nature Education in Czech Republic Nature education in the Early Childhood Education is defined in the framework educational program as the intention of teachers education ef- forts is in the environmental field to challenge an elementary awareness of the world around and its changes, of human impact to the environment be- ginning in his nearest neighborhood and reaching the global problems of planetary importance and to lay down the elementary bases for an open and responsible attitude of child and adult to the envi- ronment (Cknov, 1992; Vancant & Riha, n.d).
According to Vancant and Riha, and Cknov, part of education target and what should teacher support in children can be listed as follows: Firstly, they need to inform the child about the locality and its structure where the child lives and to bu- ild childs positive relation to this place.
Thirdly, they should create the learning environment in which students become acquainted with other cultures, develop the adaptability to conditions of outer habitat and its changes, to develop the respect to life in all its forms, and adopt the empiric experience and skills needed to provide simple operations caring for the neighborhood and to participate so in building healthy and safe environment and in protection of the child against dangerous impacts.
Freudenthal (in National Council of Teachers of Mathematics, 1989) defined geometry as: grasping space in which the child lives, breathes and moves.
As a result while student draws the nature picture their level of geometrical thinking and their spatial thinking ability may affect how they reflect the ob- jects in the nature on a drawing paper.
Spatial orientation is an important construct which means knowing your actual position and understa- ting and operating different locations and positions in the physical world with respect to your positi- on.
In kindergarten children start to or- ganize and build local maps that are less dependent to their own orientation.
Kindergartens were localized in the southeast of the Czech Republic, where the surface of the co- untry is flatland with the highest point about 800 meters over sea.
The character of country is contained from meadows, vineyards and forest (coniferous, deci- duous and also mixed).
The first step of the data obtaining was the contact with the teacher, who was present in the class during all collection of data.
Next, we explained to children what we would do.
Following descriptor was used to inform about students responsibilities: Please draw a nature picture on the white paper in front of you.
The time of nature drawing was between 20 to 40 minutes.
Table 1 shows the coding schema of the study.
Findings In this section the data will be reported from the perspective of five and six year old Czech students.
Figure 3. An Exemplar Student Drawing that did not Coded under any Category This section examines the frequency and percen- tage distribution of students drawings that did not coded under any of the categories.
Also, majority of the students (76 % of drawings) drew sun either in the middle of the sky or left or right corner of the sky.
In addition, different from Turkish Students (Ulker , under review), only one Czech students drawing was included a range of moun- tains.
Since sun and clouds could be two of the least complex items in the nature for children to draw young children could be prefer to draw a coin size sun and linear curvy clouds.
Do they have learning experiences with geometry activities in Kindergarten that help them to enhance spatial reasoning ability?
Conclusion Drawings of nature are effective to reveal students concepts of size, shape and location of nature items.
Journal of Research in Science Teaching, 37 (10), 1096-1111.
London.
Boyes, E., Stanisstreet, M., & Papantoniou, V. S. (1999), The ideas of Greek High School students about the `Ozone Layer.
Environment and Planning, 30, 1445-1460.
Retrieved April 3, 20122 from http://www.eurydice.org.
FEP EE. (2007).
81-111).
Hillsday, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Making space for geometry in primary mathematics.
Kln, A., Stanisstreet, M., & Boyes, E. (2007).
Manzanal, R. F., Barreiro, R. L. M., & Jimenez, M. C. (1999).
Curriculum and evaluation standards for school mathematics.
sterlind, K. (2005).
London: Routledge and Kegan Paul.
In A. Gutierrez & P. Boero (Eds.), Handbook of research on the psychology of mathematics educa- tion: Past, present and future (pp.
1-26).
A clinical note: The kinetic school drawing.Psychology in the Schools, 11, 303-306.
The development of visual lite- racy in art education.
