It constitutes a central issue in official and scien- tific discourse as evidenced by the large number of publications on the topic, most of them in English, but also in French, Portuguese, Spanish, and other languages.
There is no doubt that the word carries ambiguities which obscure its mean- ing.
Recent scientific literature emphasizes the double function of social representations (Larose, Lenoir, and Lavalle, 1999; Moliner, 1993, 1995; Moliner and Tafani, 1997).
As we have pointed out elsewhere (Lenoir, 1991, 1992), discursive and praxeo- logical confusion reigns in teaching, the result of a conceptual superposi- tion of non-complementary and often contradictory orientations (Lenoir, 94 Yves Lenoir, Franois Larose, and Yvon Geoffroy 1992, p. 51).
The main reason and advantage given to interdisciplinary practices was to in- crease the time given to teaching French in the weekly schedule.
These models often rest upon unconsciously held beliefs far removed from educational theories, as Argyris and Schn (1976) have demonstrated by distinguishing between theories espoused and theo- ries in use.
Figure 1: The Poles of Interdisciplinary Practice The poles of interdisciplinary practice These results lead us to identify the pseudo-interdisciplinary approach as the one most often used by primary teachers in the early grades.5 This ten- Eclectism (Heterogeneous addition of elements from two or more subject matters) Holism (Fusion of subject matters and of contents) H egemony (Domination of one subject matter over the others) Pseudo-interdisciplinarity (No relation among subject matters) y x a b c d 96 Yves Lenoir, Franois Larose, and Yvon Geoffroy dency is caused principally by the teachers desire to stimulate their students interest.
The teach- ers were, however, responsible for their own learning and left to fend for themselves.
In other respects, teachers whose principal objective is to meet the curricular requirements from a strictly administrative point of view em- ploy the hegemonic, eclectic, and holistic approaches.
The teaching of art, the natural sciences, and the social sci- ences are of particular concern.
The notion of orientation was retained in a similar fash- ion, when in fact it was only a technical ability, to be developed to be sure, but only insofar as it would help to grasp the notion of local space and its cartographic representation more precisely.
Without pre-service or in-service univer- sity education or documentationfor most do not read the scientific litera- tureprimary school teachers adopt an approach based on empirical grop- ing, which is at best characterized as pluridisciplinarity.
Moreover, for Berger (1972), it is not enough to recognize the multi-dimensionality of all real situations and the possibility of different perspectives in order to establish interdisciplinarity.
Some authors extol a holistic and organic perspective in the name of humanism (Angers and Bouchard, 1984), others in the name of motivation of the childrens in- terests and, more generally, of the postulates of the New School (Desrochers- Brazeau, 1979, 1986).
Now and then these two processes are confused and judged identi- cal.
For instance, a learning scenario in social studies on Amerindians may become the trigger or the motive for the reading of Amerindian legends (imaginary texts) in French (Martin, 1989, p. 9).
In this case, the social sciences are reduced to playing a role of figuration.
Two principal factors could explain this inconsistency; teachers of the lower-primary grades reduce this average time because, except in certain rare exceptions, English is not taught in the first three grades or teachers who should teach this subject do not, for reasons ranging from poor knowledge of English to political or cultural ideological choice.
The reader should remember that this is a typology which expresses the extremes of what primary teachers think and do when turning to interdisciplinarity . It is not for us to pass judgment on teaching practices, for they reflect social tendencies.
104 Yves Lenoir, Franois Larose, and Yvon Geoffroy In this sense, school interdisciplinarity, rather than leaning towards one or the other of the four polar extremes, should be situated at the crossroads of the two continua.
Thus, the project was not interdisciplinary in the way we are advocating.
He holds a Ph.D.
in sociology from the University of Paris 7, and he specializes in the study of interdisciplinarity in teaching and in teacher education.
He holds a Ph.D.
in psychology from the University of Genve.
7. Until recently the expression subject matter integration reigned unchallenged in the Quebec school context and was used as a synonym for interdisciplinarity.
By curriculum we mean the structured set of pedagogical infrastructure, pedagogical situations, and of the interrelationships among their different components planned for an educational level and/or for a group of subjects in a school, a college, or a university (Legendre, 1988, p. 134).
135).
A special issue of Instructional Science on Didactics in the French-speaking world was published in 1999 under the direction of Franois Tochon.
(1987).
Andler, D. (1987).
La mise en oeuvre du projet dintgration.
Masters thesis, Faculty of Education, University of Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, Quebec.
Montreal: Commision des coles Catholiques de Montral, cole vangline.
Paris:Organisation de Coopration et de Dveloppement conomiques, Centre pour la Recherche et lInnovation dans lEnseignement.
Classroom practices: Teachers images in action.
Boucherville: Graficor.
Lexplication quotidienne.
Elbaz, F. (1991).
Deschamps and J.-L.
. (1998).
. (1998).
. (1998).
Linterdisciplinarit et la formation des enseignants au primaire et au secondaire.
Revue des Sciences de lducation, XXIV:1, 1-228.
Cinq questions propos des reprsentations sociales.
34-80).
. (1987).
Perrenoud, P. (1997).
Buffalo, NY: Prometheus Books.
An International Journal of Learning and Cognition, 27:1-2, 1-192.
