Inquiry	 into	 the	 Extent,	 Benefits	 and	 Potential	 of	 Music	 Education	 in	 Victorian	 Schools	 	 	 	 Education	 and	 Training	 Committee	 Victorian	 Parliament	 	 February	 15,	 2013	 	 	 	 	 Thank	 you	 for	 the	 opportunity	 to	 respond	 to	 the	 Committees	 inquiry	 into	 music	 education,	 which	 has	 been	 welcome	 by	 the	 music	 and	 music	 education	 profession	 in	 Victoria.	 I	 have	 chosen	 to	 comment	 on	 the	 Terms	 of	 Reference	 with	 which	 I	 am	 best	 acquainted.	 For	 example,	 my	 teaching	 and	 research	 have	 focussed	 largely	 on	 classroom	 music	 P	 -	 12	 rather	 than	 instrumental	 music	 or	 studio	 teaching.	 	 	 	 Yours	 sincerely	 	 	 	 	 	 Associate	 Professor	 Neryl	 Jeanneret	 Assistant	 Dean,	 Research	 Training,	 and	 Head	 of	 Music	 Education	 Melbourne	 Graduate	 School	 of	 Education	 	 	 Music	 Education	 in	 Victorian	 Schools	 	 	 2	 Inquiry	 into	 the	 Extent,	 Benefits	 &	 Potential	 of	 Music	 Education	 in	 Victorian	 Schools	 There	 have	 been	 numerous	 investigations	 into	 and	 reports	 on	 music	 and	 arts	 education	 at	 a	 state	 and	 national	 level	 over	 the	 last	 two	 decades	 (see	 below	 for	 examples).	 All	 these	 documents	 have	 supported	 the	 benefits	 of	 music	 and	 the	 arts	 in	 education	 and	 frequently	 criticised	 the	 lack	 of	 access	 and	 equity	 to	 the	 arts	 for	 all	 children.	 To	 date	 there	 has	 been	 little	 in	 the	 way	 of	 concrete	 action	 in	 response	 to	 the	 recommendations	 from	 any	 these	 reports.	 For	 example,	 it	 is	 now	 eight	 years	 since	 the	 Report	 from	 the	 National	 Review	 of	 School	 Music	 Education	 (NRSME)	 was	 released	 and	 the	 submissions	 to	 this	 Review	 came	 from	 5936	 individuals	 and	 groups,	 representing	 a	 wide	 spectrum	 of	 those	 interested	 in	 school	 music	 education	 from	 around	 Australia	 (DEST,	 2005:ix).	 It	 was	 the	 largest	 response	 recorded	 to	 any	 Commonwealth	 review	 and	 a	 national	 workshop	 in	 Melbourne	 followed	 in	 2006	 to	 plan	 responses	 to	 the	 Reviews	 recommendations.	 Further	 to	 this,	 the	 School	 Music	 Action	 Group	 (sMAG)	 organised	 a	 Victorian	 workshop	 for	 stakeholders	 to	 consider	 ways	 to	 act	 on	 the	 Reviews	 recommendations	 at	 the	 more	 immediate,	 local	 level.	 According	 to	 some	 (Tertiary	 Music	 Education	 Task	 Force,	 2011),	 a	 government	 supported	 implementation	 of	 the	 recommendations	 was	 derailed	 by	 the	 2007	 election	 and	 the	 focus	 is	 now	 on	 the	 Australian	 Curriculum,	 another	 issue	 for	 most	 of	 the	 music	 education	 profession.	 	 	 	 In	 2009,	 I	 completed	 research	 for	 the	 DEECD,	 which	 examined	 primary	 music	 education	 in	 Victoria.	 The	 instructions	 were:	 	 1.1.
Perform	 a	 scan	 of	 effective	 music	 programs	 both	 nationally	 and	 internationally,	 including	 programs	 making	 effective	 use	 of	 ICT,	 and	 document	 those,	 which	 have	 potential	 within	 the	 Victorian	 context.	 1.2.
A	 detailed	 methodology	 including	 the	 development	 of	 criteria	 to	 determine	 best	 practice.	 1.3.
Identify	 and	 document,	 in	 the	 form	 of	 case	 studies,	 	 examples	 of	 current	 practice	 in	 curriculum,	 pedagogy,	 assessment	 and	 reporting	 practices	 of	 specialist	 music	 teachers	 in	 Victorian	 government	 primary	 schools	 1.4.
Identify	 and	 document,	 in	 the	 form	 of	 case	 studies,	 	 examples	 of	 current	 practice	 in	 curriculum,	 pedagogy,	 assessment,	 and	 reporting	 practices	 of	 generalist	 teachers	 in	 Victorian	 government	 primary	 schools.	 1.5.
Identify	 and	 document	 examples	 of	 Victorian	 government	 primary	 schools	 making	 effective	 use	 of	 available	 budget	 and	 other	 resources	 to	 implement	 best	 practice	 music	 and/or	 instrumental	 music	 programs	 1.6.
Identify	 and	 document	 examples	 of	 existing	 professional	 learning	 strategies/programs	 for	 generalist	 teachers	 in	 Victorian	 government	 primary	 schools	 that	 enable	 them	 to	 provide	 best	 practice	 music	 programs.	 1.7.
Prepare	 advice,	 which	 would	 support	 Victorian	 government	 primary	 schools	 to	 provide	 quality	 music	 programs.	 To	 my	 knowledge,	 this	 Report	 has	 not	 been	 made	 public	 but	 I	 would	 be	 happy	 to	 provide	 a	 copy	 for	 the	 Committee	 with	 permission	 from	 the	 DEECD.	 Aspects	 of	 this	 Report	 were	 used	 in	 two	 chapters	 I	 completed	 for	 the	 Oxford	 Handbook	 of	 Music	 Education,	 published	 in	 2012.	 The	 best	 practice	 I	 observed	 in	 Victoria	 is	 of	 a	 world	 standard.	 There	 are,	 however,	 government	 schools	 that	 neglect	 music	 education	 and	 it	 is	 this	 inconsistency	 of	 music	 education	 provision	 across	 the	 State	 that	 is	 the	 main	 issue	 for	 me.	 	 Many	 studies	 examining	 music	 and	 arts	 education	 have	 tended	 to	 focus	 on	 the	 general,	 transferrable	 outcomes,	 which	 are	 quite	 impressive	 as	 the	 summary	 later	 indicates.	 What	 tend	 to	 be	 forgotten	 are	 the	 musical	 gains	 and	 the	 consideration	 of	 the	 study	 of	 music	 as	 an	 end	 in	 itself.	 Music	 is	 a	 stand-alone	 discipline	 with	 a	 lengthy	 academic	 history	 dating	 from	 Plato,	 Aristotle	 and	 Socrates,	 and,	 music	 was	 one	 of	 the	 liberal	 arts	 taught	 along	 with	 arithmetic,	 geometry,	 astronomy,	 grammar,	 logic,	 and	 rhetoric	 when	 universities	 were	 established	 in	 the	 Middles	 Ages.	 Music	 is	 offered	 at	 30	 of	 Australias	 42	 universities	 and	 in	 September	 2011,	 a	 report	 from	 Global	 Access	 Partners	 (GAP)	 about	 the	 current	 state	 of	 tertiary	 music	 education	 in	 Australia	 was	 released.	 A	 high-powered	 group	 of	 senior	 representatives	 from	 academia,	 the	 artistic	 community,	 government,	 business	 and	 not-for-profit	 organisations	 contributed	 to	 the	 Report	 and	 the	 poor	 state	 of	 pre-tertiary	 music	 education	 was	 commented	 upon,	 Despite	 the	 funding	 difficulties	 of	 recent	 years,	 universities	 still	 wish	 to	 retain	 their	 music	 conservatoria	 as	 they	 recognise	 the	 cultural	 capital'	 they	 provide	 for	 the	 institution	 and	 wider	 community	 The	 arts	 have	 an	 important	 role	 to	 play	 in	 building	 social	 inclusion,	 and	 initiatives	 should	 be	 developed	 by	 all	 Music	 Education	 in	 Victorian	 Schools	 	 	 3	 stakeholders	 to	 achieve	 this	 end.	 Equality	 of	 access	 to	 tertiary	 music	 education	 depends	 upon	 equality	 of	 access	 to	 pre-tertiary	 music	 education,	 which	 at	 present	 is	 spectacularly	 absent	 in	 Australia.	 Pre-tertiary	 music	 education	 must	 become	 a	 priority	 on	 the	 national	 cultural	 policy	 agenda.	 (GAP,	 2011:7)	 	 While	 I	 understand	 the	 Education	 and	 Training	 Committees	 wish	 to	 have	 a	 perhaps	 more	 up	 to	 date	 and	 local	 picture	 of	 music	 education,	 there	 is	 much	 to	 be	 gained	 by	 revisiting	 the	 NRSME	 Report.	 The	 recommendations	 remain	 as	 current	 as	 they	 were	 eight	 years	 ago	 and	 are,	 in	 my	 view,	 still	 applicable	 to	 Victoria.	 	 Angus,	 M.,	 Olney,	 H.,	 et	 al.	 (2004).	 The	 Sufficiency	 of	 Resources	 for	 Australian	 Primary	 Schools,	 Canberra,	 Australian	 Government	 Department	 of	 Education,	 Science	 and	 Training.	 Australia	 Council	 for	 the	 Arts.	 (2001).	 Promoting	 the	 value	 of	 the	 arts,	 www.ozco.gov.au/pva.	 Australia	 Council	 for	 the	 Arts.	 (2002).	 Promoting	 the	 value	 of	 the	 arts.	 National	 seminar	 on	 education	 and	 the	 arts.	 State	 and	 Territory	 presentation	 summaries.	 Papers	 presented	 at	 the	 National	 Seminar	 on	 Education	 and	 the	 Arts,	 Sydney,	 Australia.	 Australia	 Council	 for	 the	 Arts.	 (2004).	 Education	 and	 the	 arts	 strategy	 2004	 	 2007,	 Strawberry	 Hills,	 NSW.	 Australian	 Music	 Association	 (2006)	 Making	 The	 Progression:	 Report	 of	 the	 National	 Music	 Workshop	 2728	 August,	 2006	 Commonwealth	 of	 Australia.	 (1995).	 Arts	 education.	 Report	 by	 the	 Senate	 Environment,	 Communications	 and	 Arts	 References	 Committee.	 Canberra:	 Senate	 Environment,	 Recreation,	 Communications	 and	 the	 Arts	 Reference	 Committee.	 Curriculum	 Corporation.	 (1994).	 A	 statement	 on	 the	 arts	 for	 Australian	 schools:	 A	 joint	 project	 of	 the	 States,	 Territories	 and	 the	 Commonwealth	 of	 Australia	 initiated	 by	 the	 Australia	 Education	 Council.	 Carlton:	 Curriculum	 Corporation.	 Davis,	 D.	 (2008).	 First	 We	 See.	 The	 National	 Review	 of	 Visual	 Education.	 Canberra:	 Commissioned	 by	 the	 Australia	 Council	 for	 the	 Arts.	 Co-funded	 by	 the	 Department	 of	 Education,	 Science	 and	 Training	 Department	 of	 Education,	 Science	 and	 Training	 (2005).	 National	 Review	 of	 School	 Music	 Education:	 Augmenting	 the	 diminished.	 Perth:	 DEST	 &	 Centre	 for	 Learning,	 Change	 and	 Development,	 Murdoch	 University	 School	 Music	 Action	 Group	 (2007).	 Victorian	 Music	 Workshop	 Report.	 Melbourne:	 sMAG	 Victorian	 Association	 of	 State	 School	 Principals	 (1997).	 Music	 Education	 in	 Victorian	 Secondary	 Schools:	 A	 Report	 by	 the	 Instrumental	 Music	 Working	 Party	 of	 the	 Victorian	 Association	 of	 State	 School	 Principals,	 May	 NSW	 Ministry	 for	 the	 Arts.	 (2004).	 The	 education	 and	 Arts	 Partnership	 initiative	 report:	 Promoting	 the	 value	 of	 the	 arts.	 	 Oakley,	 K.	 (2007).	 Educating	 for	 the	 Creative	 Workforce:	 ARC	 Centre	 of	 Excellence	 for	 Creative	 Industries	 and	 Innovation	 and	 the	 Australia	 Council	 for	 the	 Arts.	 Melbourne:	 Australia	 Council	 for	 the	 Arts.	 Evidence	 supporting	 music	 education	 in	 schools	 1) benefits	 to	 society	 and	 to	 individual	 students	 wanting	 to	 pursue	 music	 as	 a	 career;	 2) general	 benefits	 to	 students	 as	 a	 result	 of	 music	 education;	 3) benefits	 to	 student	 academic	 performance	 as	 a	 result	 of	 music	 education;	 	 From	 an	 economic	 perspective,	 music	 is	 a	 multinational	 industry	 that	 makes	 a	 significant	 contribution	 to	 the	 Australian	 and	 international	 economy	 as	 noted	 by	 the	 facts	 in	 Table	 1	 and	 the	 quote	 below	 from	 the	 Tertiary	 Music	 Education	 In	 Australia	 Task	 Force.	 The	 economist	 Hans	 Hoegh-Guldberg	 estimated	 the	 gross	 value-added	 of	 the	 Australian	 music	 sector	 at	 $6.8	 billion,	 or	 0.7	 of	 gross	 domestic	 product	 (GDP),	 in	 2005-06.	 The	 figure	 includes	 not	 only	 the	 value	 of	 live	 and	 recorded	 performance,	 musical	 instruments	 and	 equipment,	 but	 also	 the	 music-related	 aspects	 of	 industries	 such	 as	 education	 and	 broadcasting	 (GAP,	 2011:11).	 	 Table	 1:	 Economic	 facts	 from	 the	 music	 industry*	 According	 to	 International	 Federation	 of	 the	 Phonographic	 Industry's	 (IFPI)	 figures	 released	 in	 March	 2012,	 Australia	 is	 the	 sixth	 biggest	 music	 market	 in	 the	 world	 	 335,100	 people	 worked	 in	 the	 music	 sector	 in	 Australia	 in	 2007,	 more	 than	 car	 manufacturing	 and	 mining	 combined	 (these	 ABS	 figures	 do	 not	 include	 those	 in	 education	 or	 broadcasting),	 Music	 concert	 ticket	 sales	 reached	 almost	 $1	 billion	 in	 2011,	 with	 11	 million	 attendances	 nationally	 In	 2011,	 venues	 such	 as	 hotels,	 clubs,	 cafes,	 and	 restaurants	 were	 estimated	 to	 generate	 41.97	 million	 attendances,	 and	 leverage	 $1.21	 billion	 revenue	 through	 audience	 spending	 in	 licensed	 live	 music	 venues.	 With	 6,300	 such	 gigs	 each	 week	 across	 the	 country,	 live	 music	 also	 helps	 to	 sustain	 almost	 15,000	 jobs	 	 Live	 music	 in	 hotels,	 clubs	 and	 restaurants	 generated	 gross	 revenues	 of	 $1.21	 billion	 and	 contributed	 around	 $650	 million	 to	 the	 Australian	 economy	 in	 2010-2011	 	 Australia	 is	 amongst	 the	 leading	 digital	 music	 markets	 internationally	 	 In	 2009/10,	 each	 Australian	 household	 spent	 an	 estimated	 $380	 on	 music-related	 goods	 and	 services,	 totalling	 over	 $2	 billion	 economy-wide.	 	 Thats	 more	 than	 they	 spent	 on	 internet	 charges,	 dental	 fees	 or	 domestic	 holiday	 airfares	 	 *Source:	 Australia	 Council	 for	 the	 Arts,	 Artfacts	 web-page	 http://artfacts.australiacouncil.gov.au/	 and	 the	 Music	 Council	 of	 Australia	 Music	 Education	 in	 Victorian	 Schools	 	 	 4	 	 Music	 also	 provides	 many	 and	 varied	 employment	 opportunities	 beyond	 that	 of	 the	 narrowly	 conceived	 on- stage	 performer	 (Table	 2)	 and	 there	 are	 approximately	 30	 universities,	 14	 TAFE	 colleges	 and	 five	 private	 providers	 offering	 post-secondary	 awards	 across	 the	 country	 (Music	 Council	 of	 Australia).	 	 Table	 2:	 Employment	 pathways	 in	 music*	 	 Composition	 Performance	 Music	 education	 Contemporary	 art	 composer	 Community	 music	 composer	 Educational	 music	 composer	 Classical	 music	 theatre	 composer	 Dance	 theatre	 composer	 Musical	 theatre	 composer	 Screen	 composer	 Interactive	 multimedia	 composer	 Advertising	 music	 composer	 Library	 music	 composer	 Arranger	 Orchestrator	 Music	 copyist	 Popular	 music	 composer	 Musical	 theatre	 performer	 Musical	 director	 Backing	 musician	 Session	 musician	 Conductor	 Orchestral	 musician	 Chamber	 musician	 Classical	 singer	 Defence	 force	 band	 musician	 Accompanist	 Repetiteur	 Ballet	 pianist	 Community	 musician	 Church	 musician	 Rock/popular	 musician	 High	 school	 classroom	 music	 teacher	 High	 school	 head	 of	 music,	 creative	 Arts	 	 Primary	 school	 music	 teacher	 Instrumental	 teacher	 (peripatetic)	 Studio	 teacher	 and/or	 owner	 Manager	 of	 a	 music	 teaching	 business	 employing	 teachers	 Director	 of	 a	 conservatorium	 	 Teacher	 (TAFE	 institute)	 Head	 teacher	 (TAFE	 institute)	 Music	 education	 academic	 Music	 academic	 Music	 education	 consultant	 Support	 positions	 in	 a	 music	 school	 Administrative	 assistant	 Technical	 officer	 (audio)	 Technical	 assistant	 Booking	 officer	 Writing	 &	 Research	 Instrument	 making	 &	 repairing	 Libraries,	 archives	 &	 information	 services	 Freelance	 music	 journalist	 Music	 critic	 	 Editor	 of	 a	 music	 magazine	 Music	 biographer	 Music	 researcher	 (academic)	 Arts	 industry	 research	 consultant	 Music	 textbook	 writer	 General	 editor	 of	 a	 music	 reference	 book	 Traditional	 musical	 instrument	 maker	 Experimental	 musical	 instrument	 maker	 (incorporating	 sound	 sculptor)	 Electronic	 music/software	 instrument	 maker	 Woodwind	 and	 brass	 instrument	 repairer	 Piano	 technician	 Electronic	 equipment	 repairer	 	 Music	 librarian	 Orchestral	 librarian	 Music	 manuscript	 archivist	 Sound	 archivist	 Music	 curator	 	 	 Retailing	 &	 Wholesaling	 Broadcasting	 Music	 therapy	 Retail-Record	 Store	 sales	 assistant	 Record	 Store	 owner/manager	 Manager	 of	 a	 chain	 record	 store	 Music	 store	 sales	 assistant	 Music	 store	 owner/manager	 Wholesale	 Product	 manager	 Internal	 sales	 manager	 	 Music	 radio	 Presenter	 Music	 director	 Program	 director	 Producer	 Music	 television	 	 Presenter	 Supervising	 producer	 Head	 of	 programming	 in	 a	 special	 education	 facility	 for	 aged	 care	 in	 an	 acquired	 brain	 injury	 unit	 in	 a	 community	 early	 intervention	 setting	 in	 a	 children's	 hospital	 in	 a	 rehabilitation	 facility	 specialising	 in	 palliative	 care	 in	 an	 adolescent	 and	 adult	 psychiatric	 facility	 n	 a	 community	 drug	 and	 alcohol	 rehabilitation	 facility	 Production	 Arts	 administration	 Music	 business	 Record	 Producer	 Programmer	 Remixer	 Recording	 engineer	 Mastering	 Engineer	 Studio	 Manager	 Maintenance	 Engineer	 Production	 company	 Live	 sound	 business	 Sound	 and	 lighting	 hire	 coordinator	 Tour	 manager	 Sound	 Designer	 (theatre)	 Stage	 manager	 (opera	 and	 music	 theatre)	 Film	 production	 Music	 supervisor	 Music	 editor	 Sound	 supervisor/sound	 designer	 Sound	 effects	 recordist	 Effects	 editor	 Effects	 mixer	 Mixer	 Music	 video	 clip	 director	 Arts	 funding	 project	 officer	 Arts	 development	 officer	 Manager	 of	 a	 music	 service	 organisation	 Director	 of	 a	 music	 industry	 advocacy	 organisation	 Music	 presenting	 organisations	 Artistic	 administrator	 Orchestra	 manager	 Operations	 manager	 Development	 manager	 Marketing	 manager	 Education	 manager	 Financial	 manager	 Festival	 artistic	 director	 Festival	 producer	 Venue	 manager	 Artist	 manager	 Music	 lawyer	 Music	 accountant	 Booking	 agent	 Music	 merchandiser	 Promote	 Venue	 booker	 Record	 company	 position	 Artist	 and	 Repertoire	 (A&R)	 manager	 Label	 manager	 Promotions	 director	 Sales	 director	 Sales	 representative	 Music	 publishing	 company	 position	 Managing	 director	 Copyright	 /royalties	 manager	 Licensing	 manager	 Production	 music	 manager	 Hire	 library	 manager	 Performance	 promotions	 manager	 *(adapted	 from	 University	 of	 Queensland,	 http://www.uq.edu.au/music/careers-in-music)	 Music	 Education	 in	 Victorian	 Schools	 	 	 5	 	 	 The	 general	 and	 academic	 benefits	 of	 music	 education	 vary	 in	 degree	 depending	 on	 the	 nature	 of	 the	 childs	 involvement.	 At	 a	 most	 general	 level	 music	 contributes	 to	 the	 development	 of	 whole	 child	 as	 noted	 in	 Table	 3.	 	 	 Table	 3:	 Finding	 from	 the	 National	 Review	 of	 School	 Music	 Education	 Music	 education	 is	 valuable	 and	 essential	 for	 all	 Australian	 school	 students	 International	 and	 national	 research	 shows	 that	 music	 education	 uniquely	 contributes	 to	 the	 emotional,	 physical,	 social,	 and	 cognitive	 growth	 of	 all	 students.	 Music	 in	 schools	 contributes	 to	 both	 instrumental	 and	 aesthetic	 learning	 outcomes;	 transmission	 of	 cultural	 heritage	 and	 values;	 and,	 students	 creativity,	 identity	 and	 capacity	 for	 self-expression	 and	 satisfaction.	 	 DEST,	 (2005).	 National	 Review	 of	 School	 Music	 Education	 p.iii	 	 The	 benefits	 identified	 as	 a	 result	 music	 education	 (and	 arts	 education	 in	 general)	 come	 from	 various	 fields	 of	 research	 such	 as	 education,	 psychology,	 music,	 and	 neuroscience.	 Samples	 for	 studies	 have	 ranged	 from	 25,000	 students	 across	 the	 United	 States	 (Fiske,	 1999)	 to	 the	 1,000+	 students	 involved	 in	 the	 Musical	 Futures	 pilot	 in	 Victoria	 (Jeanneret,	 2011)	 to	 quite	 small	 samples	 in	 the	 case	 of	 the	 expensive	 imaging	 used	 in	 some	 neuroscience	 studies.	 	 	 Involvement	 of	 students	 in	 music	 and	 arts	 education	 has	 been	 shown	 to:	 	 improve	 academic	 achievement	 (Babo,	 2001;	 Bamford,	 2006;	 Barr,	 Dittmar,	 Roberts,	 &	 Sheraden,	 2002;	 Caldwell	 &	 Vaughan,	 2012;	 Cardarelli,	 2003;	 Catterall,	 Chapleau	 &	 Iwanaga,	 1999;	 Cox,	 2001;	 DeGraffenreid,	 1999;	 Wetter,	 Koerner,	 Schwaninger,	 2009;	 Shobo,	 2001;	 Yoon,	 2000).	 improve	 attendance	 (Dreezen,	 Aprill	 &	 Deasy,	 1999;	 Jeanneret,	 2011)	 	 improve	 performance	 on	 standardised	 reading	 and	 verbal	 tests	 (Butzlaff,	 2001;	 Caldwell	 &	 Vaughan,	 2012;	 Neuharth,	 2000;)	 improve	 maths,	 numeracy	 and	 mathematical	 reasoning	 (Caldwell	 &	 Vaughan,	 2012;	 Kluball,	 2000;	 Olson,	 2003;	 Haley,	 2001;	 Rauscher	 and	 Zupan	 2000;	 Whitehead,	 2001;	 Vaughn,	 2001)	 improve	 literacy	 and	 verbal	 memory	 (Bamford,	 2006;	 Caldwell	 &	 Vaughan,	 2012;	 Ho,	 Carlson	 et	 al.	 2004;	 Cheung,	 &	 Chan,	 2003;	 Hunter,	 2005;	 Olson,	 2003;	 Spillane,	 2009;	 Stringer,	 2004)	 	 improve	 reading	 proficiency	 for	 students	 in	 low	 SES	 schools	 (Caldwell	 &	 Vaughan,	 2012;	 Catterall,	 Chapleau	 &	 Iwanaga,	 1999)	 	 Participation	 in	 music	 and	 arts	 programs	 have	 been	 found	 to	 be	 associated	 with	 psychological	 indicators	 such	 as:	 	 resilience	 (Dillon,	 2006;	 Oreck,	 Baum	 &	 McCartney,	 1999)	 	 wellbeing	 (Grossman	 and	 Sonn,	 2010;	 	 McLellan,	 Galton,	 Steward	 &	 Page,	 2012)	 self-regulation	 (Oreck,	 Baum	 &	 McCartney,	 1999;	 Hunter,	 2005;	 Saarikallio,	 2011)	 	 self-esteem	 (Anderson	 &	 Overy,	 2010;	 	 Brice	 Heath,	 1999;	 Hunter,	 2005;	 Imms,	 Jeanneret,	 Stevens- Ballenger,	 2011;	 Uptis	 &	 Smithrim,	 2003)	 self-concept	 (Catterall,	 Chapleau	 &	 Iwanaga,	 1999;	 ;	 Imms,	 Jeanneret,	 Stevens-Ballenger,	 2011)	 	 self-efficacy	 (Deasy,	 2001;	 Jeanneret	 &	 Brown,	 2013)	 	 motivation	 (Bamford,	 2006;	 Catterall,	 Chapleau	 &	 Iwanaga,	 1999;	 Hunter,	 2005;	 Jeanneret,	 2011)	 	 	 Research	 in	 the	 area	 of	 neuroscience	 has	 shown	 musicians	 have:	 a	 larger	 corpus	 collosum,	 which	 allows	 for	 a	 high	 number	 and	 faster	 synapses	 (messages)	 to	 travel	 from	 one	 side	 of	 the	 brain	 to	 the	 other	 (Peretz,	 2005).	 a	 larger	 motor	 cortex	 where	 planning	 and	 voluntary	 motor	 functions	 are	 controlled	 (Peretz,	 2005)	 more	 highly	 developed	 neurofilaments	 which	 leads	 to	 faster	 and	 more	 synchronised	 neural	 firings	 (Hannon,	 2007)	 a	 denser	 auditory	 cortex	 (Janata	 et	 al.,	 2002)	 and	 grey	 matter	 (Gaser	 &	 Schlaug,	 2003),	 and	 thus	 respond	 to	 auditory	 stimuli	 more	 effectively	 and	 have	 the	 capacity	 to	 store	 more	 information.	 Music	 Education	 in	 Victorian	 Schools	 	 	 6	 significantly	 higher	 abilities	 in	 memory,	 including	 short	 and	 long	 term	 memory	 retention	 and	 retrieval	 (Jonides,	 2008;	 Dunbar,	 2009)	 a	 more	 highly	 developed	 executive	 function	 which	 is	 the	 ability	 to	 regulate	 our	 cognitive	 and	 emotional	 responses	 (Posner,	 2008;	 Bialystok,	 2009)	 more	 developed	 geometrical	 skills	 (Hannon	 &	 Trainor,	 2007)	 more	 highly	 developed	 neural	 pathways	 (Ball,	 2008;	 Trainor,	 2009;	 Willis,	 2007)	 	 Furthermore,	 children	 who	 experience	 musical	 training	 have	 been	 found	 to	 have	 earlier	 and	 higher	 levels	 of	 language	 acquisition	 (Wandell,	 2009)	 and	 understanding	 (Norton,	 2005).	 	 Examples	 of	 benefits	 from	 recent	 Australian	 studies	 	 The	 Musical	 Futures	 approach	 is	 a	 music	 pedagogy	 that	 clearly	 and	 demonstrably	 engages	 and	 empowers	 students	 in	 music	 and	 benefits	 other	 areas	 of	 learning	 in	 schools.	 It	 is	 a	 cost-efficient	 as	 well	 as	 an	 effective	 pedagogy	 for	 engaging	 all	 students	 in	 learning	 about	 music	 and	 developing	 performance	 skills.	 The	 evidence	 reported	 here	 also	 shows	 this	 approach	 can	 contribute	 to	 the	 ten	 Australian	 Curriculum	 capabilities	 of	 literacy,	 numeracy,	 ICT,	 thinking	 skills,	 creativity,	 self-management,	 teamwork,	 intercultural	 understanding,	 ethical	 behaviour	 and	 social	 competence.	 	 Table	 4:	 Outcomes	 of	 the	 implementation	 of	 the	 Music	 Futures	 pedagogy	 in	 ten	 Victorian	 pilot	 schools	 	 Engagement	 Social	 Learning	 Musical	 Knowledge	 &	 Skills	 students	 positive	 about	 coming	 to	 class	 &	 keen	 to	 learn	 very	 good	 behaviour	 in	 MF	 classes	 previously	 reluctant	 children	 now	 positive	 about	 music	 	 increased	 uptake	 of	 extra-curricula	 instrumental	 tuition	 many	 students	 prefer	 music	 over	 other	 subjects	 	 students	 look	 forward	 to	 school	 generally	 students	 engage	 in	 music	 at	 home	 some	 students	 feel	 MF	 contributes	 to	 well- being	 strong	 interest	 in	 further	 music	 study	 	 after	 school,	 lunchtimes	 students	 desire	 to	 improve	 music	 skills	 and	 knowledge	 students	 report	 a	 sense	 of	 accomplishment	 improved	 peer-peer	 mentoring,	 sharing	 of	 resources	 &	 information	 report	 learning	 new	 things	 about	 friends/classmates	 self-moderated	 behaviour	 and	 choices	 	 express	 &	 understand	 team	 participation	 &	 cooperation	 can	 lead	 to	 increased	 productivity	 &	 improved	 outcomes	 opportunities	 to	 help	 others	 boost	 self- confidence	 acknowledge	 teamwork	 &	 problem	 solving	 transfers	 to	 other	 learning	 areas	 	 new	 friendships	 formed	 through	 music	 	 music	 connects	 people	 peers	 are	 reportedly	 very	 supportive	 of	 each	 other	 development	 of	 leadership	 skills	 students	 who	 generally	 clash	 on	 a	 personal	 level,	 work	 cooperatively	 in	 MF	 classes	 learned	 strategies	 to	 deal	 with	 difficult	 team	 members	 skills	 on	 a	 range	 of	 instruments	 	 acknowledge	 ensemble	 playing	 aids	 development	 	 learned	 how	 to	 read	 sheet	 music	 ability	 to	 improvise	 new	 songs	 are	 easier	 to	 learn	 indicating	 development	 students	 are	 able	 to	 articulate	 technical	 difficulties	 	 awareness	 of	 strategies	 to	 overcome	 difficulties	 in	 learning	 new	 music	 	 students	 report	 an	 improvement	 in	 their	 ability	 to	 hear	 and	 identify	 all	 of	 the	 components	 in	 new	 recorded	 music	 	 understanding	 that	 practice	 =	 improvement	 comfortable	 use	 of	 metalanguage	 i.e.	 the	 language	 associated	 with	 the	 discipline	 highly	 articulate	 students	 demonstrated	 a	 well- developed	 capacity	 to	 reflect	 on	 and	 discuss	 music	 &	 musical	 futures	 Jeanneret,	 N.	 (2011).	 	 Musical	 Futures:	 An	 Australian	 perspective.	 Report	 on	 research	 conducted	 for	 the	 Australian	 Music	 Association.	 Available	 at	 Musical	 Futures,	 http://www.musicalfutures.org.uk/resource/27551	 Jeanneret,	 N.	 (2010).	 Musical	 Futures	 in	 Victoria.	 Australian	 Journal	 of	 Music	 Education,	 2,	 148-162.	 	 Caldwell	 and	 Vaughans	 evaluation	 of	 an	 arts	 program	 taught	 in	 disadvantaged	 schools	 is	 featured	 in	 Transforming	 Education	 Through	 the	 Arts.	 They	 found:	 	 student	 grades	 in	 English,	 maths,	 science	 and	 social	 studies	 rose	 significantly	 compared	 to	 similar	 schools	 with	 no	 arts	 classes.	 	 national	 literacy	 tests,	 the	 proportion	 of	 Year	 5	 students	 meeting	 minimum	 standards	 in	 reading	 rose	 to	 90%	 compared	 with	 about	 65%	 in	 non-arts	 schools.	 Students	 engaged	 in	 the	 arts	 gained	 a	 full	 year	 in	 NAPLAN	 scores	 in	 reading.	 There	 was	 65%	 less	 absenteeism	 on	 days	 when	 the	 long-term	 arts	 program	 was	 offered	 compared	 with	 absenteeism	 in	 schools	 that	 did	 not	 offer	 the	 program.	 Students	 engaged	 in	 the	 arts	 had	 higher	 measures	 on	 every	 dimension	 of	 the	 Australian	 Council	 for	 Educational	 Research	 socio-economic	 well-being	 scale.	 We	 believe	 these	 findings	 are	 of	 profound	 significance	 for	 policy	 and	 practice	 in	 education	 in	 Australia.	 The	 inclusion	 of	 the	 arts,	 defined	 broadly,	 in	 a	 balanced	 curriculum	 may	 have	 a	 more	 powerful	 impact	 than	 many	 strategies	 to	 improve	 literacy	 that	 have	 so	 far	 had	 a	 limited	 impact.	 	 Government	 schools	 may	 be	 at	 a	 competitive	 disadvantage	 through	 side-lining	 the	 arts.	 Professor	 Brian	 Caldwell	 	 	 Music	 Education	 in	 Victorian	 Schools	 	 	 7	 Current	 provision	 of	 music	 education	 in	 Victoria	 4) music	 education	 provided	 through	 specific	 funding	 for	 music	 education;	 5) music	 education	 provided	 through	 non-specific	 funding,	 for	 example,	 general	 student	 resource	 package	 funding;	 6) music	 education	 provided	 through	 parent	 contribution	 7) the	 extent	 and	 quality	 of	 music	 education	 provision	 in	 Victorian	 schools;	 	 The	 Stevens	 Report	 (MCA,	 2003)	 found	 that	 Australian	 students	 could	 complete	 13	 years	 of	 education	 without	 participating	 in	 any	 form	 of	 music	 education.	 This	 is	 especially	 possible	 in	 Victoria,	 Western	 Australia	 or	 the	 Australian	 Capital	 Territory	 where	 there	 are	 no	 mandatory	 or	 prescribed	 requirements	 for	 music	 education.	 National	 Review	 of	 School	 Music	 Education	 	 As	 noted	 earlier,	 there	 are	 examples	 of	 best	 practice	 in	 music	 education	 in	 early	 childhood,	 primary	 and	 secondary	 settings	 throughout	 Victoria.	 The	 problem	 is	 that	 the	 provision	 of	 music	 education	 is	 not	 equitable	 nor	 accessible	 to	 all.	 The	 causes	 of	 this	 lack	 of	 provision	 are	 multiple:	 	 There	 is	 a	 wealth	 division	 not	 only	 between	 the	 government	 and	 private	 schools	 but	 also	 between	 government	 schools	 depending	 on	 their	 location	 and	 available	 support.	 There	 is	 an	 over	 emphasis	 on	 instrumental	 music	 in	 some	 secondary	 schools	 at	 the	 expense	 of	 classroom	 music,	 which	 is	 for	 all	 children	 at	 the	 beginning	 of	 secondary	 schooling.	 There	 are	 no	 clear	 guidelines	 about	 the	 amount	 of	 time	 that	 should	 be	 devoted	 to	 music	 throughout	 the	 school	 years.	 In	 NSW,	 it	 is	 mandated	 that	 grade	 7	 and	 8	 students	 receive	 100	 hours	 of	 music	 instruction	 and	 there	 are	 clear	 guidelines	 about	 the	 number	 of	 hours	 to	 be	 devoted	 to	 elective	 music	 subjects	 Many	 children	 are	 not	 attracted	 to	 music	 classes	 because	 some	 secondary	 and	 primary	 teachers	 engage	 in	 archaic	 music	 pedagogy	 that	 is	 not	 only	 out	 of	 touch	 with	 current	 trends	 in	 music	 education	 but	 ignorant	 of	 the	 DEECDs	 Principles	 of	 Learning	 and	 Teaching	 P	 	 12.	 There	 is	 a	 lack	 of	 consistent	 and	 ongoing	 professional	 development	 available	 in	 music	 education,	 particularly	 in	 regional	 Victoria	 [NSW	 supports	 conservatoria	 of	 music	 in	 17	 regional	 cities].	 Music	 is	 neglected	 in	 the	 early	 childhood	 area	 with	 many	 centres	 providing	 little	 or	 no	 music	 education	 for	 the	 children.	 More	 than	 a	 third	 (38%)	 of	 rural	 Victorian	 primary	 schools	 do	 not	 offer	 classroom	 music	 programs	 (Heinrich,	 2011)	 There	 has	 been	 an	 erosion	 of	 teacher	 education	 hours	 in	 music	 in	 early	 childhood,	 primary	 and	 secondary	 and	 graduate	 teachers	 are	 frequently	 underprepared	 to	 teach	 music.	 In	 the	 case	 of	 early	 childhood	 and	 primary	 generalist	 students	 entering	 teacher	 education,	 few	 have	 even	 fundamental	 music	 knowledge	 and	 skills	 from	 their	 schooling	 unlike	 other	 areas	 such	 as	 mathematics	 and	 English.	 	 The	 music	 education	 components	 in	 teacher	 education	 courses	 have	 to	 provide	 foundation	 music	 knowledge	 and	 skills	 as	 well	 as	 how	 to	 teach	 music	 in	 a	 short	 period	 [12	 hours	 at	 MGSE;	 17	 hours	 is	 the	 Australian	 average	 (Hocking,	 2008)].	 At	 MGSE,	 a	 primary	 arts	 elective	 is	 now	 available	 for	 the	 secondary	 music	 cohort	 to	 build	 their	 primary	 music	 teaching	 knowledge	 and	 skills.	 The	 expectations	 of	 music	 graduate	 teachers	 in	 secondary	 and	 primary	 schools	 are	 frequently	 greater	 than	 that	 of	 other	 disciplines	 [there	 are	 at	 least	 two	 graduate	 from	 the	 Master	 of	 Teaching	 at	 MGSE	 who	 go	 into	 Director	 of	 Music	 roles	 in	 their	 first	 year	 of	 teaching]	 	 Future	 optimum	 provision	 of	 music	 education	 in	 Victorian	 schools	 8) optimum	 governance	 and	 oversight	 arrangements;	 9) optimum	 use	 of	 targeted	 funding;	 10) optimum	 balance	 of	 central	 mandates	 and	 supports;	 and	 11) optimum	 balance	 of	 music	 specific	 funding,	 non-music	 specific	 funding	 and	 parent	 contribution.	 	 In	 relation	 to	 the	 future	 provision	 of	 music	 education	 in	 Victorian	 schools,	 I	 support	 many	 of	 the	 School	 Music	 Action	 Groups	 proposals	 which	 are	 already	 well	 documented	 (Meeting	 with	 Minister	 Dixon,	 http://smag-schoolmusicactiongroup.blogspot.com.au/2012/07/meeting-with-minster-dixon.html)	 Music	 Education	 in	 Victorian	 Schools	 	 	 8	 	 Music	 Teacher	 Education	 and	 Professional	 Development	 	 At	 least	 one	 Arts	 specialism	 for	 all	 Primary	 Teacher	 Education	 Students	 	 Music	 Enrichment	 Programs	 for	 Primary	 Teacher	 Education	 Students	 	 Music	 Enrichment	 Programs	 for	 Practising	 Primary	 School	 Teachers	 Government	 Subsidy	 for	 a	 Graduate	 Certificate	 in	 Primary	 Music	 as	 an	 Intensive	 Course	 This	 strategy	 was	 used	 by	 NSW	 Department	 of	 Education	 in	 the	 1980s	 with	 very	 long-term	 benefits.	 Enhancement	 of	 the	 current	 teacher	 education	 model	 for	 Primary	 and	 Secondary	 Music	 Specialists	 Provision	 should	 be	 made	 in	 Masters	 of	 Teaching	 (Secondary)	 and	 other	 pre-service	 secondary	 teacher	 education	 courses	 for	 music	 students	 to	 take	 Primary	 Classroom	 Music	 method	 subjects	 in	 addition	 to	 Secondary	 Music	 method	 subjects.	 	 This	 would	 enable	 them	 to	 have	 an	 option	 of	 teaching	 at	 both	 primary	 and	 secondary	 levels.	 	 In	 2012,	 a	 primary	 arts	 elective	 was	 made	 available	 to	 the	 secondary	 music	 cohort	 at	 the	 Melbourne	 Graduate	 School	 of	 Education	 with	 great	 success.	 Inclusion	 of	 a	 leadership	 subject	 in	 secondary	 teacher	 education	 to	 prepare	 music	 graduates	 	 Provision	 for	 an	 accelerated	 program	 of	 teacher	 education	 leading	 to	 VIT	 registration	 for	 Instrumental	 Music	 Personnel	 	 Early	 childhood	 and	 primary	 teacher	 accreditation	 authorities	 make	 specific	 mention	 of	 music	 or	 arts	 specialism	 as	 part	 of	 the	 graduate	 skills	 	 	 Music	 Curriculum	 Advocacy	 and	 Implementation	 Development	 of	 a	 Vision	 for	 Music	 Education	 Provision	 of	 Specialist	 Music	 Schools	 The	 creation	 of	 a	 number	 of	 music	 specialist	 schools	 in	 every	 Region	 within	 travelling	 distance	 from	 a	 group	 of	 schools	 which	 would	 host	 instrumental	 and	 ensemble	 programs,	 and	 provide	 a	 centre	 for	 the	 professional	 development	 and	 support	 of	 music	 teachers	 in	 the	 area.	 	 Music	 policy,	 liaison,	 facilitation	 and	 advisory	 support	 from	 the	 DEECD	 Appointment	 of	 a	 Music	 Development	 Officer	 Particularly	 in	 view	 of	 the	 imminent	 need	 to	 implement	 the	 music	 component	 of	 the	 forthcoming	 Australian	 Curriculum:	 The	 Arts,	 a	 music	 development	 officer	 should	 be	 appointed	 to	 liaise	 with	 ACARA,	 VCAA	 and	 other	 relevant	 curriculum	 authorities	 and	 professional	 associations	 and	 to	 facilitate	 the	 implement	 of	 the	 new	 music	 curriculum	 framework	 in	 Victorian	 government	 schools.	 	 	 Music	 Education	 in	 Victorian	 Schools	 	 	 9	 References	 Anderson,	 K.	 &	 Overy,	 K.	 (2010).	 Engaging	 Scottish	 young	 offenders	 in	 education	 through	 music	 and	 art.	 International	 Journal	 of	 Community	 Music,	 3:	 1,	 47-64	 Babo,	 G.	 D.	 (2001).	 The	 impact	 of	 a	 formal	 public	 school	 instrumental	 music	 instruction	 program	 on	 an	 eighth	 grade	 middle	 school	 student's	 reading	 and	 mathematics	 achievement.	 (Doctoral	 Dissertation,	 Seton	 Hall	 University).	 Dissertation	 Abstracts	 International,	 62	 (04),	 1277A.	 Ball,	 P.	 (2008).	 Science	 &	 Music:	 Facing	 the	 music.	 Nature,	 453(7192),	 160-162	 Bamford,	 A.	 (2006).	 The	 Wow	 Factor:	 Global	 Research	 Compendium	 on	 the	 Impact	 of	 the	 Arts	 in	 Education.	 	 Germany:	 Waxman.	 Bialystok,	 E.	 &	 DePape,	 A.	 (2009).	 Musical	 Expertise,	 Bilingualism,	 and	 Executive	 Functioning.	 Journal	 of	 Experimental	 Psychology:	 Human	 Perception	 and	 Performance,	 35:2,	 565574	 Brice	 Heath,	 S.	 (1999).	 Imaginative	 Actuality:	 Learning	 in	 the	 Arts	 during	 the	 Nonschool	 Hours	 In	 Fiske	 (Ed)	 Champions	 of	 Change:	 The	 Impact	 of	 the	 Arts	 on	 Learning.	 The	 Arts	 Education	 Partnership	 and	 the	 Presidents	 Committee	 on	 the	 Arts	 and	 Humanities,	 Washington	 D.C.	 Retrieved	 from:	 http://artsedge.kennedy-center.org/champions/pdfs/	 ChampsReport.pdf	 	 Butzlaff,	 R.	 (2001).	 Can	 Music	 Be	 Used	 to	 Teach	 Reading?	 	 In	 Deasy	 (Ed.)	 Critical	 Links:	 Learning	 in	 the	 Arts	 and	 Student	 Academic	 and	 Social	 Development.	 Washington	 D.C.:	 Arts	 Education	 Partnership.	 Retrieved	 from:	 http://	 aep- arts.org/files/research/CriticalLinks.pdf	 	 	 Caldwell,	 B.	 &	 Vaughan,	 T.	 (2012).	 Transforming	 Education	 Through	 the	 Arts.	 Routledge.	 Carlson,	 J.,	 Hoffman,	 J,	 Gray,	 D.,	 &	 Thompson,	 A.	 (2004).	 A	 musical	 interlude:	 Using	 music	 and	 relaxation	 to	 improve	 reading	 performance.	 Intervention	 in	 school	 and	 clinic,	 39:4,246-250.	 Catterall,	 J.S.,	 Chapleau,	 R.	 &	 Iwanaga,	 J.	 (1999).	 Involvement	 in	 the	 arts	 and	 human	 development:	 General	 involvement	 and	 intensive	 involvement	 in	 music	 and	 theater	 arts.	 In	 Fiske	 (Ed.).	 Champions	 of	 Change:	 The	 Impact	 of	 the	 Arts	 on	 Learning.	 Washington	 D.C.:	 Presidents	 Committee	 on	 the	 Arts	 and	 Humanities,	 Washington	 D.C.:	 Arts	 Education	 Partnership.	 Retrieved	 from:	 http://artsedge.kennedycenter.org/champions/pdfs/ChampsReport.pdf	 	 Deasy,	 R.	 (2002).	 Critical	 Links:	 Learning	 in	 the	 Arts	 and	 Student	 Academic	 and	 Social	 Development.	 Washington	 D.C.:	 Arts	 Education	 Partnership.	 Retrieved	 from:	 http://	 aep	 arts.org/files/research/CriticalLinks.pdf	 	 Dillon,	 S.	 (2006).	 Assessing	 the	 positive	 influence	 of	 music	 activities	 in	 community	 development	 programs.	 Research	 in	 Music	 Education,	 8:	 2,	 267-280	 Dreezen,	 C.,	 Aprill,	 A.	 &	 Deasy,	 R.	 (1999).	 Learning	 Partnerships:	 Improving	 Learning	 in	 Schools	 with	 Arts	 Partners	 in	 the	 Community.	 Washington	 D.C.	 Arts	 Education	 Partnerships.	 Retrieved	 from:	 http://www.aeparts.	 org/files/partnership/LearningPartnerships.pdf	 	 Dunbar,	 K.	 N.	 (2009).	 Arts	 Education,	 the	 Brain,	 and	 Language.	 Learning,	 Arts,	 and	 the	 Brain.	 The	 Dana	 Consortium	 Report	 on	 Arts	 and	 Cognition,	 pp.	 81-104	 Gaser,	 C.	 &	 Schlaug,	 G.	 (2003).	 Brain	 Structures	 Differ	 between	 Musicians	 and	 Non-Musicians.	 The	 Journal	 of	 Neuroscience,	 23:27,	 9240.	 Global	 Access	 Partners,	 (2011).	 Report	 from	 the	 Tertiary	 Music	 Education	 In	 Australia	 Task	 Force.	 	 Sydney:	 GAP.	 Grossman,	 M.	 &	 Sonn,	 C.	 (2010)	 New	 Moves:	 Understanding	 the	 impacts	 of	 The	 Song	 Room	 programs	 for	 young	 people	 from	 refugee	 backgrounds.	 Melbourne:	 The	 Song	 Room.	 Hannon,	 E.	 E.	 &	 Trainor,	 L.	 J.	 (2007)	 Music	 acquisition:	 effects	 of	 enculturation	 and	 formal	 training	 on	 development.	 Trends	 in	 Cognitive	 Sciences,	 11(11),	 465-472	 Heinrich,	 J.	 (2011).	 The	 provision	 of	 music	 programs	 in	 country	 Victorian	 primary	 schools.	 Unpublished	 MEd thesis, La Trobe University, Victoria	 Hetland,	 L.	 (2001).	 Learning	 to	 Make	 Music	 Enhances	 Spatial	 Reasoning.	 In	 Deasy	 (Ed.)	 Critical	 Links:	 Learning	 in	 the	 Arts	 and	 Student	 Academic	 and	 Social	 Development.	 Washington	 D.C.:	 Arts	 Education	 Partnership.	 Retrieved	 	 Hocking,	 R.,	 (2008).	 Music	 instruction	 in	 preservice	 training	 of	 classroom	 teachers.	 Music	 Forum,	 14:3.	 Hunter,	 M.	 (2005).	 Education	 and	 the	 Arts	 Research	 Overview.	 Summary	 Report	 prepared	 the	 Australia	 Council	 for	 the	 Arts.	 Strawberry	 Hills:	 Australia	 Council	 for	 the	 Arts.	 Retrieved	 from	 http://www.australiacouncil.	 	 gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0018/34083/EdArts_	 Research_Overview.pdf	 	 Imms,	 W.,	 Jeanneret,	 N.	 &	 Stevens-Ballenger,	 J.	 (2011).	 Partnerships	 between	 schools	 and	 the	 professional	 arts	 sector:	 Evaluation	 of	 impact	 on	 student	 outcomes.	 Melbourne:	 Arts	 Victoria.	 http://www.arts.vic.gov.au/Research_and_Resources/Research_Projects/Arts_and_Education_Partnerships	 Janata,	 P.,	 Birk,	 J.	 L.,	 Van	 Horn,	 J.	 D.,	 Leman,	 M.,	 Tillmann,	 B.,	 Bharucha,	 J.	 J.	 (2002).	 The	 cortical	 topography	 of	 tonal	 structures	 underlying	 Western	 music.	 Science	 (New	 York,	 N.Y.),	 1095-9203,	 298:	 5601	 Jeanneret,	 N.	 &	 Brown,	 R.	 (2013).	 Behind	 ArtPlays	 Bright	 Orange	 Door.	 A	 Research	 Report.	 Melbourne:	 University	 of	 Melbourne.	 Jeanneret,	 N.	 (2011).	 	 Musical	 Futures:	 An	 Australian	 perspective.	 Report	 on	 research	 conducted	 for	 the	 Australian	 	 	 Music	 Association.	 Available	 at	 Musical	 Futures,	 http://www.musicalfutures.org.uk/resource/27551	 Jonides,	 J.	 (2008).	 Musical	 Skill	 and	 Cognition.	 Learning,	 Arts,	 and	 the	 Brain.	 The	 Dana	 Consortium	 Report	 on	 Arts	 and	 Cognition,	 pp.	 11-17	 McLellan,	 R.	 Galton,	 M.,	 Steward,	 S.	 &	 Page,	 C.	 (2012).	 The	 Impact	 of	 Creative	 Partnerships	 on	 the	 Wellbeing	 of	 Children	 and	 Young	 People:	 Final	 Report.	 University	 of	 Cambridge.	 Norton	 A.,	 Winner	 E.,	 Cronin	 K.,	 Overy	 K.,	 Lee	 D.	 J.,	 Schlaug	 G.	 (2005).	 Are	 there	 pre-existing	 neural,	 cognitive,	 or	 motoric	 markers	 for	 musical	 ability?	 Brain	 and	 Cognition.	 Nov,	 59:2,	 124-34	 Music	 Education	 in	 Victorian	 Schools	 	 	 10	 Oreck,	 B.,	 Baum,	 S.	 &	 McCartney	 (1999).	 Artistic	 talent	 development	 for	 urban	 youth:	 The	 promise	 and	 the	 challenge.	 In	 Fiske	 (Ed).	 	 Champions	 of	 Change:	 The	 Impact	 of	 the	 Arts	 on	 Learning.	 Washington	 D.C.:	 Presidents	 Committee	 on	 the	 Arts	 and	 Humanities,	 Washington	 D.C.;	 Arts	 Education	 Partnership.	 Retrieved	 from:	 http://artsedge.kennedycenter.	 	 org/champions/pdfs/ChampsReport.pdf	 	 Peretz,	 I.	 &	 Zatorre,	 R.	 (2005).	 Brain	 Organization	 For	 Music	 Processing,	 Annual	 Review	 of	 Psychology,	 56,	 89114	 Peretz,	 I.,	 Gosselin,	 N.,	 Belin,	 P.,	 Zatorre,	 R.	 J.,	 Plailly,	 J.,	 &	 Tillmann,	 B.	 (2009).	 Music	 Lexical	 Networks:The	 Cortical	 Organization	 of	 Music	 Recognition.	 The	 Neurosciences	 and	 Plasticity:	 Annals	 of	 The	 New	 York	 Academy	 Of	 Sciences,	 1169,	 256265	 Posner,	 M.,	 Rothbart,	 M.	 K.,	 Sheese,	 B.	 E.,	 Kieras,	 J.	 (2008).	 How	 Arts	 Training	 Influences	 Cognition.	 Learning,	 Arts,	 and	 the	 Brain.	 The	 Dana	 Consortium	 Report	 on	 Arts	 and	 Cognition,	 pp.	 1-11	 Saarikallio,	 S.	 (2011)	 Music	 as	 emotional	 self-regulation	 throughout	 adulthood.	 Psychology	 of	 Music,	 39	 Schellenberg,	 E.G.	 (2006).	 Long-Term	 Positive	 Associations	 between	 Music	 Lessons	 and	 IQ.	 Journal	 of	 Educational	 Psychology.	 98(2),	 457-468	 	 Spillane,	 D.	 (2009).	 Boys	 in	 a	 small	 rural	 school:	 Developing	 a	 Culture	 of	 confidence	 and	 success.	 In	 Harrison	 (Ed).	 Male	 voices,	 Stories	 of	 Boys	 Learning	 through	 Making	 Music.	 Australia:	 ACER	 Press.	 	 	 Trainor,	 L.	 (2008).	 The	 neural	 roots	 of	 music.	 Nature.	 453(7195),	 598-9.	 Uptis,	 R.	 &	 Smithirim,	 K.	 (2003).	 Learning	 through	 the	 Arts	 National	 Assessment	 19992002.	 Final	 Report	 to	 The	 Royal	 Conservatory	 of	 Music.	 Retrieved	 from	 http://www.ltta.ca/discussionzone/press/LTTAjun03-ResearchReport.pdf	 	 Vaughn,	 K.	 (2001).	 Music	 and	 mathematics:	 modest	 support	 for	 the	 oft-claimed	 relationship.	 In	 Deasy	 (Ed.)	 Critical	 Links:	 Learning	 in	 the	 Arts	 and	 Student	 Academic	 and	 Social	 Development.	 Washington	 D.C.:	 Arts	 Education	 Partnership.	 Retrieved	 from:	 http://aep-arts.org/files/	 research/CriticalLinks.pdf	 	 Wandell,	 B.,	 Dougherty,	 R.	 F.,	 Ben-Shachar,	 M.,	 Deutsch,	 M.	 K.,	 and	 Tsang,	 J.	 (2009).	 Training	 in	 the	 Arts,	 Reading,	 and	 Brain	 Imaging.	 Learning,	 Arts,	 and	 the	 Brain.	 The	 Dana	 Consortium	 Report	 on	 Arts	 and	 Cognition,	 pp.	 51-61.	 Willis,	 J.	 (2007).	 The	 Neuroscience	 of	 Joyful	 Education.	 Educational	 Leadership,	 Summer	 2007	 (Engaging	 the	 Whole	 Child	 	 Online	 Only),	 No.	 64,	 accessed	 20/01/2013.	 	 	 	 	 Music	 Education	 in	 Victorian	 Schools	 	 	 11	 Associate	 Professor	 Neryl	 Jeanneret	 Assistant	 Dean,	 Research	 Training	 and	 Head	 of	 Music	 Education	 Melbourne	 Graduate	 School	 of	 Education	 	 	 Music	 Education	 Background	 (Selected)	 2011	 -	 2013	 Board	 of	 Directors,	 Australian	 College	 of	 the	 Arts	 2010	 -	 2012	 Chief	 Assessor,	 Externally	 Assessed	 Task,	 VCE	 Style	 and	 Composition	 2009	 -	 2013	 Advisory	 Board,	 International	 Journal	 for	 Arts	 Education	 2009	 -	 2012	 Composition	 selection	 panel	 for	 Top	 Sounds,	 VCAA	 2009	 -	 2010	 VCE	 Music	 Review	 and	 study	 guide	 development	 2009	 -	 2013	 Music	 Standing	 Committee,	 Conservatorium	 of	 Music,	 University	 of	 Melbourne	 2008	 -	 2013	 VCE	 setting	 panel	 for	 Music	 Styles,	 VCAA	 2006	 -	 2008	 Chair,	 International	 Society	 for	 Music	 Educations	 Commission	 for	 Music	 in	 Cultural,	 Educational	 and	 Mass	 Media	 Policies	 2005	 -	 2013	 Music	 Course	 Advisory	 Committee,	 Box	 Hill	 TAFE	 2005	 -	 2013	 Melbourne	 Graduate	 School	 of	 Education	 	 2004	 -	 2013	 Member	 of	 National	 Panel	 for	 the	 APRA-Australian	 Music	 Centre	 Classical	 Music	 Awards	 2004	 -	 2006	 Member	 of	 Steering	 Committee	 for	 National	 Review	 of	 School	 Music	 Education	 2003	 -	 2005	 National	 President,	 Australian	 Society	 for	 Music	 Education	 2002	 -	 2004	 President,	 Newcastle	 Institute	 for	 Educational	 Research	 2000	 -	 2004 Chief	 Examiner,	 NSW	 Higher	 School	 Certificate	 Music 1997	 -	 2013	 Editorial	 board,	 Australian	 Journal	 of	 Music	 Education	 1993	 	 2004	 University	 of	 Newcastle	 	 lecturer	 in	 music	 education,	 educational	 psychology,	 Director,	 Professional	 Experience	 Unit	 1978	 	 1992	 NSW	 Department	 of	 Education	 	 high	 school	 music	 teacher;	 distance	 education	 music	 teacher	 and	 writer;	 Music	 K	 	 12	 curriculum	 consultant;	 study	 leave	 and	 teaching	 at	 University	 of	 Arizona	 1990	 	 92.	 	 Fellowship	 of	 the	 Australian	 Society	 for	 Music	 Education	 as	 recognition	 of	 outstanding	 and	 distinctive	 contributions	 to	 the	 advancement	 of	 music	 education.	 	 Recent	 Publications:	 Jeanneret,	 N.	 &	 Brown,	 R.	 (2013).	 Behind	 ArtPlays	 Bright	 Orange	 Door.	 A	 Research	 Report.	 Melbourne:	 University	 of	 Melbourne.	 Jeanneret,	 N.	 (in	 press).	 Partnerships	 between	 schools	 and	 the	 professional	 arts	 sector	 in	 Victoria.	 Cambridge	 Journal	 of	 Education.	 Jeanneret,	 N.	 &	 Brown,	 R.	 (in	 press).	 City	 Beats:	 A	 Creative	 Community	 Partnership	 Initiative	 at	 ArtPlay.	 Australian	 Journal	 of	 Music	 Education.	 Jeanneret,	 N.	 &	 DeGraffenreid,	 G.	 (2012)	 Music	 education	 in	 the	 generalist	 classroom.	 In	 G.	 McPherson	 &	 G.	 Welch	 (Eds)	 The	 Oxford	 Handbook	 of	 Music	 Education	 Volume	 1.	 New	 York:	 Oxford	 University	 Press.	 pp	 399-416.	 	 Leong,	 S.,	 Burnard,	 P.,	 Jeanneret,	 N.,	 Leung,	 B.	 &	 Waugh,	 C.	 (2012).	 Assessing	 Creativity	 in	 Music:	 International	 Perspectives	 and	 Practices.	 In	 G.	 McPherson	 &	 G.	 Welch	 (Eds)	 The	 Oxford	 Handbook	 of	 Music	 Education	 Volume	 2.	 New	 York:	 Oxford	 University	 Press.	 pp	 389-402	 Sinclair,	 C.,	 Jeanneret,	 N.	 &	 J.	 OToole,	 J.	 (Eds)	 (2011).	 Education	 and	 the	 Arts:	 Principles	 and	 Practices	 for	 Teaching.	 Melbourne:	 Oxford	 University	 Press.	 Second	 Edition.	 253	 pp	 Jeanneret,	 N.	 (2011).	 Arts	 partnerships	 with	 schools:	 Where	 is	 the	 music?	 Victorian	 Journal	 of	 Music	 Education,1,	 36-41.	 	 Imms,	 W.,	 Jeanneret,	 N.	 &	 Stevens-Ballenger,	 J.	 (2011).	 Partnerships	 between	 schools	 and	 the	 professional	 arts	 sector:	 Evaluation	 of	 impact	 on	 student	 outcomes.	 Melbourne:	 Arts	 Victoria.	 http://www.arts.vic.gov.au/Research_and_Resources/Research_Projects/Arts_and_Education_Partnerships	 Stevens-Ballenger,	 J.,	 Jeanneret,	 N.	 &	 Forrest,	 D.	 (2010).	 Preservice	 primary	 music:	 Where	 to	 begin?	 Victorian	 Journal	 of	 Music	 Education,	 1,	 36-41.	 	 Jeanneret,	 N.	 (2010).	 Musical	 Futures	 in	 Victoria.	 Australian	 Journal	 of	 Music	 Education,	 2,	 148-162.	 	 Donelan,	 K.,	 Irvine,	 C.,	 Imms,	 W.,	 Jeanneret,	 N.	 &	 OToole,	 J.	 (2009)	 Partnerships	 between	 schools	 and	 the	 professional	 arts	 sector.	 State	 of	 Victoria	 (Department	 of	 Education	 and	 Early	 Childhood)	 Development:	 Melbourne.	 Jeanneret,	 N.	 (2009).	 Primary	 Music	 Education	 in	 Victoria.	 Report	 on	 research	 conducted	 for	 the	 Department	 of	 Education	 and	 Early	 Childhood	 Development,	 Melbourne.	 	 	 Music	 Education	 in	 Victorian	 Schools	 	 	 12	 	 