2006 23:1, 2338 Copyright C 2006 Cambridge University Press doi:10.1017/S0265051705006728 The teaching of music in the primary school by the non-music specialist H i l a r y Ho l d e n 1 and S t u a r t B u t t o n 2 1Tees Valley Music Service, Bishopton Road West, Stockton-on-Tees, TS19 0QH, UK 2University of Durham, Durham, DH1 1TA, UK S.W.Button@durham.ac.uk This article reports on an investigation of the teaching of music by non-music specialists in the primary school.
This statutory requirement has placed enormous demands upon teachers, many of whom were initially trained as generalists.
However, since the introduction of the National Curriculum for Music, OFSTED (Office for Standards in Education) have argued that, as with other subjects, the development of primary music largely depends on the level of expertise and quality of teaching available (OFSTED, 1995: 17).
Moreover, they acknowledged that few teachers could be expected to be an expert in all areas of the curriculum.
(1992) argued that it was the introduction of the National Curriculum that brought the question of subject expertise to the fore, and that primary teachers now faced a demand which may well be unreasonable and unrealistic, as with the broadening 24 The teach i ng o f mus i c i n t he p r ima r y s choo l b y t he non-mus i c spec i a l i s t curriculum, many teachers may compromise the quality of teaching in order to cope with the quantity (p.
27).
However, Plummeridge claims that a non-specialist teacher would be better advised to improve their own musical ability as a pre-requisite to music teaching (Plummeridge, 1991: 89).
(1994) express concern that there may be insufficient teachers in primary schools with the necessary confidence and expertise to implement fully the music programme (p.
Lawson et al.
10).
Glover and Ward (1993) take a different view.
As we use music in everyday life for various purposes such as dancing and relaxation, they suggest, we all hear and respond to structures in music even if not trained to do so.
Stocks (1998) concurs, accepting that the number of primary music specialists is limited, but if non-specialists are helped to find confidence through in-service training, have appropriate access to resources, are provided with professional in-class support then music can be taught effectively by the non-specialist.
It also attempts to identify those issues, other than music knowledge, which may influence non-specialist teachers reluctance to teach music.
Resea r ch i n s t r u m en t s The combination of quantitative and qualitative data was thought to best address the research questions.
The questionnaires 27 H i l a r y Ho l den and S tua r t B u t t on had been coded in order to identify the response rate from each school and no school had a 100% response rate.
Ana l y s i s : s umma r y o f r e s u l t s The initial analysis of data involved an examination of the questionnaire responses which was done in three stages.
Second, responses from Key Stage 1 (ages 47) and Key Stage 2 (ages 7 11) teachers were compared.
Sixty-six teachers (93% of the sample), taught music to their own class.
In addition, 11 had a colleague, a co-ordinator or a specialist to teach music for them, although two specified that this was for small group instrumental teaching rather than class music lessons.
The remaining five respondents (7% of the sample) had music taught to their class by an external music specialist.
To summarise, only one teacher from a sample of 71 taught no music.
Mus i ca l e xpe r i ence and t r a i n i ng In response to the question on musical training, 69% of the sample surveyed had received some musical education as part of their initial teacher training.
These data 30 The teach i ng o f mus i c i n t he p r ima r y s choo l b y t he non-mus i c spec i a l i s t were then examined in relation to the level of confidence respondents felt to teach music (Table 4).
Suppo r t i n mus i c t each i ng In this part of the questionnaire respondents were asked about the forms of support they received in music teaching and whether the support received enabled them to teach music independently.
Table 5 Forms of support used or received by respondents Form of support Non-specialists Text books and teacher guides 30 (47%) School scheme of work 40 (63%) Respondents own knowledge and ideas 20 (31%) A published music scheme 44 (69%) Support in own classroom by a music specialist 6 (9%) In-service training (INSET) in music 22 (34%) Advice/assistance in planning from music coordinator 18 (28%) Television programmes and radio broadcasts 12 (19%) None of the above 0 No response 3 Although the categories stating forms of support are not mutually exclusive, direct comparisons can be made between percentages linked to KS1and KS2.
The interview data revealed the inadequacy a number of respondents felt in teaching singing.
When asked if they linked music with other subjects, 66% responded yes and 34% said no. Moreover, 52% felt more confident teaching music when linked with other subjects and 26% did not.
To determine whether the difference in responses between KS1 and KS2 were significant, a chi-squared test was applied with the no-response and not applicable categories removed, and a significant agreement was established (p = 0.08).
This does not prove causality, but suggests the possibility that those teachers with practical musical qualifications are more likely to feel confident to teach it.
The interviewees commented that the reason for this was their inadequate background knowledge.
There is evidence to show that teachers generally felt most confident teaching rhythm or listening, and 72% of non-specialists were found to feel more confident teaching activities such as clapping games, musical appreciation and the historical aspects of music, than with teaching music theory.
Several interviewees commented that even with curriculum support they found notation difficult to understand and teach.
Clearly, this suggests that regular support over the academic year might be helpful in order to provide an opportunity for class teachers to follow up input on their own before some different input from a specialist.
This may give time for any problem areas to be identified by the class teacher, before meeting the music co-ordinator.
The implication is that while teachers are confident in their own pedagogical skills, they are less secure with music subject matter, content and knowledge.
It is suggested that senior management consider instigating a collegial strategy, to allow collaboration, co-operation and communication to be improved between the music and non-music specialist.
However, this as- sumes that a music specialist is available in each school, which we know is not always true.
It observes that many non-specialists feel more comfortable leading musical activities than with teaching music theory and suggests that teachers can be deterred by composition and musical notation.
In our opinion, this may minimise the threat to the teachers self-esteem, promote a positive self-image, improve 36 The teach i ng o f mus i c i n t he p r ima r y s choo l b y t he non-mus i c spec i a l i s t subject knowledge and raise their level of confidence.
London: HMSO.
Hemel Hempstead: Simon and Schuster Education.
London: HMSO.
London: HMSO.
London: HMSO.
London: HMSO.
London: HMSO.
London: HMSO.
London: HMSO.
London: HMSO.
London: HMSO.
London: Cassell.
London: Cassell.
British Journal of Music Education, 17, 2, 183196.
London: HMSO.
International Journal of Science Education, 22, 1, 89111.
Times Educational Supplement, 27 March.
