The article next considers the moral education of disabled people, covering such issues as recognition of alternative perspectives, building on life-experience and the development of self-con dence and self-esteem.
(This comparison is more fully developed elsewhere; see Leicester, 1992).
It has both structural aspects and curricular implications.
For how can we provide a moral education within a framework which implicitly endorses injus- tice?
For example, post Warnock, (GB.
the toilets are half-way between oors, you could get a lift to the oor you wanted but the toilets were half-way through between the levels This was never solved.
In schools, even when statementing of a childs special educational needs has been completed, institutions are often not adequately resourced to meet the identi ed needs (Leicester, 1999).
Moral Education in an Ethical System 253 It is always put on you to say what you need (disabled college student) (Leicester, 1999, p. 78).
Within moral and legal boundaries, is it not more humane and more intelligent to value diversity of talents, interests, pursuits, ways of life, values, appearances and so on?
Paul Abberley (1987) has set out a theory of disability as oppression.
An individual model locates the problem of disability rmly with the individual.
The experiences of disabled people are of social restrictions in the world around them; the individuals experi- ence of disability is created in interactions with a physical and social world designed for non-disabled living.
I want to suggest (and have argued more fully elsewhere (Leicester, 1994) that a synthesis of the social model of disability with empathetic recognition that an individuals impairment may be associated with pain and frustration matches this enriched moral perspective, combining justice and care.
Without a social perspective on disability, compassion and empathy may degenerate into pity and the disabled are marginalised and pathologised.
However, without an understand- ing of the individuals experience of impairment, we may fail to empathise with the actual individuals we meet.
A disability-aware education is an enriched moral edu- cationdeveloping each learners commitment to a caring justice combined with the development of her ability to practise a judicious care.
Carol Gilligans work could be seen as an instance of the epistemologically enriching power of recognising that an oppressed group tends to have a distinct, often unrecognised, perspective.
2.3.1 The personal.
2.3.2 Emotional intelligence.
This seems consonant with feminist contentions that women use intuition, metaphor and emotion in reaching understanding.
Friedman (1987) points out that motherhood tends to encourage recognition that the needs of weaker family members often have to take precedence over the interests of the stronger.
Moral education teaches children to be co-operative, and perhaps to seek the common good, but do we also teach them that there is value in sometimes being dependent, as well as value in independenceto recognise the value of human interdependence as well as of individual autonomy?
They never say, I want my son to be a good and happy person (Leicester, 1999, p. 49).
I have tried to indicate how distinctive undervalued ways of knowing have the potential to contribute to our collective moral understanding and therefore to moral education (for all).
In what follows I note, too, the implications of this for the moral education of disabled children.
My daughter, relatively unsophis- ticated in abstract thinking, is extremely able, through her emotional responses, in recognising moral issues and almost always does what she believes she ought to do.
Could it not be the case that people such as those who write for and read this journal can and do often nd persuasive arguments that what we want to do is what we ought to do?) Many disabled individuals develop empathy for suffering as a result of dif culties that they have experienced at rst hand.
Such learning from life should be taken into account by learning programmes in school.
For example, a special school head teacher in Britain wrote, in response to local education authority questionnaire on multicultural education: All our pupils have to become aware of problems of discrimination, underprivilege, self-ful lling restricted expectation, lack of employment prospects etc, etc, which affect minority groups, because they all suffer 258 M. Leicester from them as a result of their physical and visual handicaps.
3.1 Special Needs and Moral Education The notion, common in relation to disabled people, of meeting special needs, is a problematic one.
P. H of C., Warnock Report 1978).
The development of the childs self-con dence, self knowledge, and self-respect is also part of her moral education.
Vol III.
Classroom Issues, pp.
314 (London, Falmer Press).
6775 (London, Routledge/Falmer).
Education Across the Lifespan (London and New York, Routledge/Falmer).
GILLIGAN, C. (1982) In a Different Voice (Cambridge, MA, Harvard University Press).
GREAT BRITAIN, PARLIAMENT, HOUSE OF COMMONS (1978) Report of the Committee of Enquiry into the Education of Handicapped Children and Young People, (Warnock Report) (London, HMSO).
Journal of Moral Education, 23, pp.
2738.
Towards an enabling education (London, Jessica Kingsley).
0000 (London, Cassell).
(1995) Americas racialethnic cultures: opposition within a mythical Melting pot, in: B.P.
