The first in this series of tools is a set of analyses on current trends in the music industry.
The Global Alliance therefore recruits partners from a whole range of stakeholders, including governments, non-governmental and international organisations, industry associations and cultural enterprises themselves, to work on projects to supply necessary skills and resources.
It begins with an outline of the structure and functioning of music as one of the worlds most important cultural industries.
This paper assesses both of these interpretations of the relationship between the economic and cultural roles of music in developed and developing countries by evaluating the extent of its economic success, the major issues affecting its further development, including in particular the impact of new technologies, and the significance of music as a cultural industry in various parts of the developing world.
The industry so defined can be divided into a series of sub-sectors, but it is quite difficult to categorise different market segments corresponding to different musical genres, since the lines between even major musical forms such as jazz, folk, country, and so on are blurred.
More than 80 per cent of the world market is controlled by the five largest transnational conglomerates: EMI, BMG, the Warner Music Group, Sony Music Entertainment and Universal/PolyGram.
The table reveals some changes in the geographical distribution of demand, with an increase in US sales matched almost exactly by a decline in Europe.
The United States, Japan and Brazil are amongst the countries with strong home -grown musical consumption.
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
Europe France 1,695 132 28.6 2.2 Germany 2,420 245 29.5 3.0 Netherlands 455 36 28.7 2.3 UK 2,829 239 47.6 4.0 Other 3,778 486 n.a.
n.a.
Sub total 11,177 1,138 n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
Source: International Federation of Phonographic Industries (IFPI) data; see IFPI 2001a).
Details of music publishing revenues worldwide are shown in Table 4, for the most recent year for which a survey has been carried out by the National Music Publishers Association of the United States (NMPA), namely 2000.3 The table shows that in that year, public performance revenue comprised the largest share of music publishers incomes (45 per cent), with mechanical and synchronisation royalties comprising 40 and 11 per cent respectively.
Thus it is difficult enough to evaluate the aggregate volumes and values of imports and exports of music for a single country, let alone to compile a world-wide picture.
Longer term trends are shown in Table 6, where it can be seen that considerable growth in music trade occurred during the 1980s and early 1990s, due primarily to the enormous increase in trade in sound recordings that occurred between 1985 and 1995.
A particular case of the latter is so-called P2P transfers (peer-to-peer) where users swap files amongst themselves via email.
(b) includes $479m.
Downloaded files can be stored on a personal computer's hard drive, or can be transferred to a personal music locker on a remotely accessible server.7 Transmission and storage of music files on the internet has been greatly enhanced by the introduction of MP3, a compression program which reduces the size of digital audio files, making them quicker and easier to distribute and store.
Moreover, MP3 files do not require advanced facilities for their transmission; they can be sent to and from computers accessing the internet via ordinary narrowband telephone lines.8 In reviewing some of the major issues affecting the music industry below, we shall see how these technological developments ramify into all aspects of the industry's structure, conduct and performance.
As Negus (1996) points out, the activities associated with consumption of music, and notions of an audience for music, are by no means straightforward.
n.a.
Finally on the matter of demand for music, it should also be noted that the use of music to affect behaviour, or as an avenue of involuntary consumption, is increasing all the time.
10 A significant feature of the global music industry over many years has been the continuing dominance of the majors, creating a climate in which independent record producers find it increasingly difficult to remain viable.
There have been important structural changes in the world music industry since the 1970s.
The serious financial difficulties faced recently by some players in the market, including Vivendi/Universal and others, bear witness to the problems facing music companies in the new digital environment.
As noted earlier, internet music suppliers present a challenge to the major record companies, forcing them to enter the market themselves if they are to remain viable and relevant in the new environment.
It remains to be seen whether subscription services supplied via the web will be profitable, and experience to date is mixed.
Worldwide pirate sales in the year 2000 amounted to 1.8 billion units valued at around $US4.2 billion, the principal problem areas being Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa and Latin America.12 Table 8 shows the ten major pirate markets in the world, ranked by value of pirate sales in 2000.
Internet newsgroups and chat rooms may be involved in serial uploading or downloading of music material, and many sites have been established offering links to sources of infringing material.
One of the most prominent avenues for obtaining unauthorised access to music on the internet has been via Napster, which at its height was trading some 2.8 billion songs per month.
Cooperation has also been sought from internet service providers to detect and remove sites dealing in unauthorised music files.
It aggregates music and associated copyrights from many sources and supplies this content in digital form to business customers around the world.
Artspages sees itself as an importa nt global online content-brokering and marketing service for the music industry, increasing revenues for creators, performers and other independent rightsowners.
Firstly, the production sector of the music industry in these countries becomes increasingly a target for the large transnational record companies.
What then are the chances that artists and music styles from developing countries might break into world markets and hence might contribute to the local economy through the generation of export revenue?
These types of music have cross-over potential, i.e. a fusion of traditional music with western musical styles.
A stronger copyright regime in the future will be important in dealing with this problem and in ensuring appropriate rewards to musical creators, not just in developing countries but throughout the world.
Other forms of world music have come and gone in the past forty years, but none has had the staying power of reggae.
Sales have declined sharply since 1998, when the overall value of record sales was $US9.9 million.
The future growth of the industry will be enhanced by strategic policy measures to assist Jamaican artists and producers, for example through targeted concessions in some indirect taxes.16 Trinidad and Tobago Major elements affecting the music industry in Trinidad and Tobago include the annual Carnival, held two days before Ash Wednesday, at which many local musicians perform live and which serves as a focus for the development of musical talent, and the national instrument, the pan, which is an important means for giving expression to local cultural identity.
The size of the industry is difficult to estimate.
There has been little commercial development of pan, which remains an avenue for local cultural expression rather than a musical genre to be exploited on the mass market.
Its full lyrics were: 16 For further data and discussion of music in Jamaica, see James (2001).
The Development Works Report (2001) argues that strategic government intervention is necessary to create the conditions for sustainable growth of the music industries in the Southern African region.
The globalisation of music has seen a dominating role played by the publishing and sound recording industries centred in the US, Europe and Japan, with a handful of transnational corporations gaining an every- growing control over the market.
Burnett, Robert (1996), The Global Jukebox: the International Music Industry, (London: Routledge).
James, Vanus (2001), The Caribbean Music Industry Database 2000, (Report prepared for UNCTAD/WIPO).
Mundy, Simon (2001), Music and Globalisat ion: a Guide to the Issues, (Paris: International Music Council).
