We have many pieces of the puzzle but no means of bringing them together.
Finally, we show how this framework can integrate diverse foci and data by exploring three illustrative issues: the beliefs and practices of pupils; the attitudes of teachers; and the field of music education research itself.
This provides a third environment (Hargreaves, Marshall and North, 2003) for what is usually informal learning.
For example, pupils report that listening to music at school serves different (primarily educational) functions to listening at home (Boal-Palheiros & Hargreaves, 2001).
The GCSE criteria explicitly stated that teachers should encourage children of all abilities to study music at GCSE, and it has been argued that this is important for pupils at both ends of the academic spectrum (Atkinson with Spruce, 2002).
There is often little empirical evidence for claims and weak explanations of the roles played by various conjectured factors.
One dimension of this code, which we shall focus on here, is specialization or what makes someone or something different, special and worthy of distinction.
One can thus talk of a code clash between the code characterizing, for example, a pupils ways of thinking and being (or in Bourdieus terms their habitus) and that demanded by the educational context.
Such a code shift effectively changes the rules of the game.
This conceptual framework is now being used in a range of studies of diverse issues in education (for example Carvalho, Dong and Maton, 2009, Doherty, 2008; 68 SOCIOLOGY AND MUSIC EDUCATION Lamont and Maton, 2008).
Though our examples above focus on relations between pupils perceptions and curricular expectations (reflecting a study we discuss further below), they can also be used to conceptualize the beliefs and practices of any actors, such as teachers, policy-makers, commentators, and researchers.
Firstly, LCT can be used to analyse any number of practices: curriculum, pedagogy, evaluation, beliefs, interactions within a classroom, and so forth.
The final example illustrates how LCT can illuminate the field of music education research itself, focusing here on the implications of currently fashionable intellectual positions.
This documentary analysis shows that the official requirements for music embody different legitimation codes of specialisation for different stages of the curriculum (see Lamont & Maton, 2008).
The rules of the game are thereby changed again, at least at the level of curriculum guidelines and syllabus demands, to a code requiring not only the right knowledge but also the right kind of personal attributes.
Only people with natural ability can learn the special skills needed [elite].
While one might expect mathematics and science to be associated with a knowledge option, the choice of a relativist option for English and history is less easily interpreted.
Maton, 2007).
In theoretical terms, the first (skills) represents the epistemic relation and talent and taste represent different dimensions of the social relation.
Respondents thus gave ratings of the significance of a subjects epistemic relation (skills) and of its social relation (talent and taste).
The results are shown in Figure 5.2.
Here we have only given a flavour of these studies, which alongside quantitative data and documentary analysis also involved qualitative data from student focus groups which underscored the elite code portrait of music (Maton, 2007).
After teaching experience in their third and fourth years of training, two of the 12 trainees in Hennessys study had dramatically changed their views on what was important in music teaching.
189-190) Similarly, Tom, after a positive experience of teaching composition, noted that he was proud of pupils achievements and that the social skills and the enjoyment they felt when we changed volume and tempo and they could see how they impacted on the composition ...
In other words, it is a recognition of the knower code dominating music in primary school that helps alleviate their profound lack of confidence and reluctance to engage - they come to see the rules of the game.
This position arose in response to two factors thought to be limiting the growth of music education: the myth of talent as the basis of achievement in music (Sloboda and Davidson, 1996; Welch, 2001), and the impact of societal, cultural, institutional and psychological characteristics of actors on levels and forms of access and inclusion (Green, 2003; Jorgensen, 2007).
Whether one agrees with their aims or not, traditional forms of music education, such as the music appreciation movement in early twentieth-century England, had clear aims, such as immersing pupils in high culture, which provided the basis of answers to these questions.
However, it is less clear how a rhetoric of democracy and social inclusion if based on a relativist code can play out in formal education (cf.
In other words, it downplays the epistemic relation (specialist knowledge and skills) and emphasizes the social relation (for example free expression, personal engagement) - a knower code.
Focusing on issues concerning pupils, teachers and research we illustrated how LCT can be used to address a range of diverse problems facing music education and using different methods, including documentary, quantitative and qualitative analyses.
In particular, we discussed studies of the factors that contribute to making school music less popular than it can be.
Lastly, we briefly addressed the field of music education research itself, using LCT to raise questions about the implications of its dominant knower code.
Spruce (ed.), Teaching Music in Secondary Schools: A Reader, London: Routledge/Falmer, pp.
Chen, R., Maton, K. and Bennett, S. (2011) Absenting discipline: Constructivist approaches in online learning, in Christie, F. & Maton, K. (eds.) Disciplinarity: Systematic functional and sociological perspectives.
London, Continuum.
Green, L. (2002a) How Popular Musicians Learn: A Way Ahead for Music Education.
Aldershot: Ashgate.
Spruce (ed.), Teaching Music in Secondary Schools: A Reader, London: Routledge/Falmer, pp.
Green, L. (2003) Music Education, Cultural Capital, and Social Group Identity, in M. Clayton, T. Herbert & R. Middleton (eds), The Cultural Study of Music: A critical introduction, London: Routledge, pp.
Aldershot: Ashgate.
(2007) Developing identities and attitudes in musicians and classroom music teachers, British Journal of Educational Psychology, 77(3), 665-82.
Hargreaves and D.E.
British Journal of Sociology of Education, 21(2), 147-67.
McPhee, A., Stollery, P. and McMillan, R. (2005) The Wow Factor?
Moore, R. and Maton, K. (2001) Founding the sociology of knowledge: Basil Bernstein, intellectual fields and the epistemic device, in A. Morais, I. Neves, B. Davies and H. Daniels (eds), Towards a Sociology of Pedagogy: The Contribution of Basil Bernstein to Research, New York: Peter Lang, pp.
OFSTED (2002) Music in Secondary Schools: Ofsted Subject Reports Series 2001/2.
Spruce (ed.), Teaching Music in Secondary Schools: A Reader, London: Routledge/Falmer, pp.
Plummeridge, C. (2002) What is music in the curriculum?
Sloboda (eds), Musical Beginnings: Origins and Development of Musical Competence, Oxford: Oxford University Press, pp.
Stlhammar, B. (2003) Music Teaching and Young Peoples Own Musical Experience.
British Journal of Music Education, 19(3), 227-41.
