Keywords: auditory sensitivity, music perception, adolescence, autism spectrum disorders Supplemental materials: http://dx.doi.org/10.1037/a0033754.supp Shared music preference and enjoyment promote social cohe- siveness within typical adolescent peer groups (North & Har- greaves, 1999; North, Hargreaves, & ONeill, 2000; Selfhout, Branje, ter Bogtb, & Meeus, 2009).
Investigating the role of music in the everyday life of Anjali Bhatara, Department of Psychology, McGill University, Mon- treal, Quebec, Canada; Eve-Marie Quintin, Department of Psychology, McGill University, and Department of Psychology, Universit du Qubec a Montral, Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Eric Fombonne, Department of Psychiatry and Montreal Childrens Hospital, McGill University; Daniel J. Levitin, Department of Psychology, McGill University.
E-mail:bhatara@gmail.com Th is do cu m en ti s co py rig ht ed by th e A m er ic an Ps yc ho lo gi ca lA ss oc ia tio n o r o n e o fi ts al lie d pu bl ish er s.
Th is ar tic le is in te nd ed so le ly fo rt he pe rs on al u se o ft he in di vi du al u se r an d is n o t to be di ss em in at ed br oa dl y.
There are several ways of investigating auditory function.
(2006) found elevated hearing thresh- olds in the ASD group even though their physiological measure- ments were normal.
Although the causes of hyperacusis or hypersensitivity to sound are not known, there exists evidence of abnormalities at multiple levels within the auditory system of individuals with ASD.
However, they may listen to music to satisfy emotional needs.
Th is do cu m en ti s co py rig ht ed by th e A m er ic an Ps yc ho lo gi ca lA ss oc ia tio n o r o n e o fi ts al lie d pu bl ish er s.
Th is ar tic le is in te nd ed so le ly fo rt he pe rs on al u se o ft he in di vi du al u se r an d is n o t to be di ss em in at ed br oa dl y.
Quintin, Bhatara, Poissant, Fombonne, and Levitin (2011) found that ado- lescents with high-functioning ASD could associate happy, sad, scary, and peaceful music to schematic faces as accurately as controls when accounting for verbal ability.
Thus, categorization of musical emotions does not seem to be impaired in ASD, whereas perception of subtle expressive musical cues requires further study.
(2009) found that adults with ASD frequently use music in everyday life but that they tend to describe the effects of listening differently than what is usually reported by the general population, that is, they used more words describing states of arousal rather than mood or valence.
They also showed that almost half of their participants with ASD reported a preference for classical music, and that this preference had developed during childhood.
Although an increasing interest in music perception in ASD has fueled studies over the past decade, most studies have assessed performance of participants with ASD on laboratory tasks (with the exception of a few studies such as that by Allen et al., 2009).
The questionnaires allowed us to obtain common quantitative metrics of ASD symptomatology for all participants within the ASD group and to confirm that adolescents in the control group did not show even moderate signs of ASD.
An additional eight were excluded to maintain a comparable age range between groups (ages 1017).
Th is ar tic le is in te nd ed so le ly fo rt he pe rs on al u se o ft he in di vi du al u se r an d is n o t to be di ss em in at ed br oa dl y.
We assembled all of the questionnaire and interview data and examined them to resolve any discrepancies between the reports of the parents and their children.
The TD group reported more years of musical expe- rience, and individuals played a greater number of instruments on average, Fyears(1, 61)  14.00, p  .001, Finst(1, 61)  8.52, p  .005, respectively (see Table 1).
Musical Ability and Interest To examine group differences in parents reports of their chil- drens musical ability, we performed MannWhitney U tests on their responses.
Results showed that adolescents with ASD were viewed by their parents as generally having greater musical ability than adoles- cents in the TD group, U  687.50, Z  3.15, p  .002.
did not differ between groups, U  387.00, Z  1.30, p  .20.
Th is do cu m en ti s co py rig ht ed by th e A m er ic an Ps yc ho lo gi ca lA ss oc ia tio n o r o n e o fi ts al lie d pu bl ish er s.
Th is ar tic le is in te nd ed so le ly fo rt he pe rs on al u se o ft he in di vi du al u se r an d is n o t to be di ss em in at ed br oa dl y.
There was one participant in the TD group and one in the ASD group who mentioned three or more genres of music as their favorites and included classical as one of these.
However, this study has also shown that regardless of the sensitivities to various sounds reported during childhood, and even with fewer average years of musical experi- ence, enjoyment of and interest for music in adolescents with ASD are similar to those of TD adolescents.
We note that our data are consistent with many previous studies showing sensory hypersen- sitivities in individuals with ASD.
Th is do cu m en ti s co py rig ht ed by th e A m er ic an Ps yc ho lo gi ca lA ss oc ia tio n o r o n e o fi ts al lie d pu bl ish er s.
Th is ar tic le is in te nd ed so le ly fo rt he pe rs on al u se o ft he in di vi du al u se r an d is n o t to be di ss em in at ed br oa dl y.
The difference between groups in musical genre preference, with more adolescents in the ASD group reporting a preference for classical music over other genres, should be taken cautiously because of the small number of participants involved.
However, previous evidence supports the present studys results; Woody and Burns (2001) in a survey of college students showed results similar to the present studys TD group: only 1% of the students reported clas- sical music as their favorite genre.
However, the data from the present study as well as that from Allen et al.
How- ever, there remains the possibility that we would have found different results if we had had the same ratio of male to female adolescents in two groups.
Conclusions Although the parents of adolescents with ASD in our study reported more frequent hypersensitivity to sounds in early childhood than parents of TD adolescents, this hypersensitivity appeared to have no detrimental effect on the musicality of adolescents with ASD later in life.
Our findings of no significant differences between groups combined with previous research on social experiences with music in adolescence also Th is do cu m en ti s co py rig ht ed by th e A m er ic an Ps yc ho lo gi ca lA ss oc ia tio n o r o n e o fi ts al lie d pu bl ish er s.
Th is ar tic le is in te nd ed so le ly fo rt he pe rs on al u se o ft he in di vi du al u se r an d is n o t to be di ss em in at ed br oa dl y.
Sensory processing and classroom emotional, behavioral, and educational outcomes in children with autism spectrum disorder.
Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders, 26, 361 374.
Impaired timing and frequency discrimination in high-functioning au- tism spectrum disorders.
Perception of emotion in musical performance in adolescents with autism spectrum disorders.
Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 15, 226235.
International Journal of Psychophysiology, 51, 1725.
International Journal of Pediatric Otorhinolaryngology, 77, 629634.
doi:10.1023/A: 1025014929212 Cuddy, L. L., Balkwill, L. L., Peretz, I., & Holden, R. R. (2005).
Short sensory profile.
Cortical sound processing in children with autism disorder: An MEG investiga- tion.
Ear and Hearing, 27, 299312.
Th is ar tic le is in te nd ed so le ly fo rt he pe rs on al u se o ft he in di vi du al u se r an d is n o t to be di ss em in at ed br oa dl y.
Psychological Medicine, 29, 14051410.
Sensory correlations in autism.
Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders, 17, 585594.
The role of personality and gender in preference for exaggerated bass in music.
Millar, B. (2008).
Th is ar tic le is in te nd ed so le ly fo rt he pe rs on al u se o ft he in di vi du al u se r an d is n o t to be di ss em in at ed br oa dl y.
Predicting music appreciation with past emotional responses to music.
21.
Th is ar tic le is in te nd ed so le ly fo rt he pe rs on al u se o ft he in di vi du al u se r an d is n o t to be di ss em in at ed br oa dl y.
