Furthermore, means of engaging the disengaged are pursued, particularly with a view to finding equitable ways of involving marginal members of the community.
Through lullabies, through the mobiles hanging over our cots, through toys given by well-meaning relatives, our process of music education in the pre-compulsory years begin.
At school age, the trend moves towards two polarities.
Students either specialize or work in groups of around 25 for 1 their tuition.
This phenomenon does not appear to be restricted to the Australian context.
Ross and Kamba (1997) agreed, finding that, along with physics, music was the least popular school subject in England in the last 25 years.
The styles to which students are listening are usually contrary to the music they have some to know in the formal context.
Year 8 is the last time that students experience music lessons before being faced with subject choices.
Our newest Queensland arts syllabus documents fail to recognize this, moving forward with a Hungarian-based system that even the Hungarians dont follow with the same religious fervour (Wales, 2004).
Hartwigs (2003) research supports these findings, with similar reasons cited including lack of parental support, scheduling difficulties and academic standing of the subject.
Best practice in the secondary school stages, where disengagement reaches its peak (Swanwick, 1988) is worthy of examination.
Popular music styles have been mooted as one solution to this situation, if only as an access point.
She goes on to suggest that good repertoire does not have to be emotionally serious and philosophical.
Music education has not always embraced change to the same extent it has tended to remain traditional in the mode of delivery one-to- one tuition is favoured for serious instrumental and vocal tuition, small group for pre- school learning, class and ensemble style for the compulsory and post compulsory years.
These notions need to be challenged in order to improve retention and engagement.
Using a combination of modes of transmission is an important step.
It can and has been taught in each of one- to-one, small group (Jansen), choirs and classes, each one offering different perspectives on the vocal learning process.
This model enables students to study off- campus, providing they have access to an approved tutor and ensemble performance opportunities.
Flexibility in delivery has implication for addressing the time constraint many students cite as the reason for discontinuing music study.
4 The Declaration of Education (2001) charges teacher educators to produce skilled teachers who take account of change in education; who can understand the needs of a variety of learners, who are more than subject specialists, who are equipped to operate across different age levels and educational settings, who are expert in assessment and who understand the deeply valued dimensions of learning which are not easily measured (Boston, p.10).
While higher education bears some of the responsibility for producing teachers with the characteristics outlined above, as mature and responsible adults, teachers themselves must embrace skills, attitudes and understandings outlined in the Declaration of Education.
(1995), Middle and high school band directors views regarding reasons for student dropouts in instrumental music.
(1972).
British Journal of Music Education.
15(1), pp.51 69.
Hartwig, K. (2003).
The Implementation of the New P-10 Arts Syllabus: The teachers voices, In K. Hartwig (Ed.), Artistic Practice as Research, Proceedings of the XXVth Annual Conference, Australian Association for Research in Music Education.
Hartwig, K. (2004) Music in the Year 8 classroom: an action research project.
Unpublished PhD Thesis.
Griffith University, 2004.
Who am I?
Australian Voice.
Pearson Education Australia Higgins, S. (1999).
British Journal of Music Education.
GIA.
(1991).
Starting to learn a musical instrument: a study of boys and girls motivational criteria.
British Journal of Music Education.
The state of the arts.
Sloboda, J. and Howe, M. (1991).
Swanwick, K. (1988.) Music, mind and education.
London: Routledge, 6 Swanwick, K. and Lawson, D. (1999).
Interview with author, August 17, 2004 7 
