Key words: South Africa, Arts and Culture, Art Education, Marginalization, 1. Introduction Many educators and educational planners seldom, if ever, consider the viewpoint of learners when they plan for educational experiences.
According to Jean Piagets intellectual stages of development, children between the ages of 11-14 progress to the formal operational stage of abstract reasoning (Piaget, 1985).
Many authors have over the years documented that arts education in schools occurs infrequently, are of a substandard value and seldom meet the needs of the curriculum (Russell-Bowie, 1993; Anderson, 2003; Pascoe et al., 2005; Wiggins & Wiggins, 2008; Alter, Hays, & OHara, 2009).
Power & Klopper (2011) found that pre- service and in-service teacher education does not provide adequate preparation or support for generalist teachers to meet the expectations of the arts education curriculum.
Artists form a significantly large component of a society.
One aspect of such learning is the use of media technologies which surprisingly have a beneficial influence on the arts.
In addition, older people, rural communities and ethnic minorities are more likely to experience the arts through the media than through live performances.
These unsatisfactory conditions do not go unnoticed by learners and have a long-term, subconscious effect on them.
It was guided by the research question What are the challenges facing arts education in public schools based on the experiences of learners?
3. Data Presentation Categories developing from the learner discussion groups include Shortcomings in Arts Instruction, Lack of an Effective Learning Environment and Inadequate Provision for Learners Interests.
2 No. 6 June 2013 23 All learners (100%) felt that teachers focused too much on theoretical work and not enough on practical work.
Lack of an Effective Learning Environment The lack of effective environment includes suitable venues as well as a learning atmosphere conducive to effective learning.
While the differences in percentages shows the number of learners who voiced their concerns about two different types of venues, it does not indicate that the one carry more weight than the other.
In schools where a concern was raised, it merely showed that learners reminded each other about problems they experienced, the others tacitly agreeing.
In all the schools visited, only three schools had access to venues away from other classes and used their school halls for public performances Other concerns include 66 (6%) of learners complaining about the lack of instrumental ensembles that can be used to perform at school functions or in exchange programmes with other schools, 52 (5%) of learners mentioning the lack of respect from principals and non-arts teachers for Arts and Culture, and 14 (1%) mentioning that there were not enough African dances taught under Dancing.
Another 23 (2%) mentioned that there was not enough time for Arts and Culture classes to devote to skills development, while another 25 (2%) felt that arts exhibitions and art competitions could help encourage them to develop their artistic skills.
In an effort to determine whether learners continued their supposed love for arts engagement after school hours, they were asked if they received private tuition in any musical instrument or other art form.
Learners expressed what they perceived as more effective methods of instruction, but which they claim their teachers seldom provided.
Despite the appearance that the majority of learners came from less favourable economic backgrounds, a majority of 987 (94%) participants admitted to having computers at home.
All learners felt that computers were useful for research on arts and culture as well as searching for educational institutions to pursue further studies; educational videos; typing assignments, plays and poetry; using music software that can help them to write songs and other musical compositions, cut soundtracks or make their own recordings; software on graphic designing that can help them to create their own pictures; software that teach them how to play piano, using a keyboard connected to the computer; software on architectural designs; and software to create their own animated movies.
This implies a balance between the use of group work and other methods of instruction that allow for individual development, in order to cater for all streams of intellectual capacity in classrooms.
At the time of the research (Oct-Nov 2011), the new curriculum had not yet been implemented and teachers were not yet familiar with its content.
The lack of human resources pertained to areas of interests in visual arts such as fashion designing, architecture and photography.
While it is practically impossible to employ so many teachers in each visual art form, it is possible to invite professionals to the schools for one or two periods to familiarize learners with their art form.
The results reveal that there is a lack of community involvement of professional artists, perhaps because they have not been approached to get involved in schools and community centres.
This suggests that teachers are the ones who lack behind in updated knowledge and skills in the use of contemporary technologies and arts software.
5. Conclusion As recipients of the education process, learners had distinctive opinions about how and what they wanted to be taught in arts education.
While arts educators and planners seldom consider the voices and opinions of learners as individuals in their own right, whether we like it or not, learners voice their opinions about all the experiences they receive, good or bad, and use them as a yardstick to measure future choices.
The research results shows that arts education is largely inadequate in schools and that learners are not satisfied with the arts experiences they receive.
The lack of a suitable venue apart from general classrooms and the general lack of respect for the arts as a viable area of learning are realities with which many schools still have to deal.
This makes the request for a venue away from other classes an important necessity.
A suggestion for further study is an investigation of the impact of school arts education on post-matric students in the working force in terms of cultural and artistic production or participation in society.
Art and cognition: Integrating the visual arts in the curriculum.
New York: Teacher's College, Columbia University.
Garvis, S. (2010).
Gioia, D. (2008).
Washington DC: National Endowment of the Arts.
Exploration of Instructional Strategies and Individual Difference within the Context of Web-based Learning, In International Education Journal (4) 4. Retrieved on [5 July 2011] from http://iej.cjb.net.
International Journal of Arts and Commerce ISSN 1929-7106 www.ijac.org.uk 28 Klopper, C. J., & Power, B. (2010).
National review of school music education.
Retrieved from [29 Oct 2011] from http://www.dest.gov.au/NR/rdonlyres/C9AFAE54-6D72-44CC-A346- 3CAF235CB268/8944/music_review_reportFINAL.pdf.
Russell-Bowie, D. (1993).
Research Studies in Music Education (1), 52-58.
Arts Education in America: What the declines means for arts participation.
