Organizations and even economic regions that embrace creativity generate significantly higher revenue and provide greater stability into the future.
In 2005, the United Kingdoms Commission for Africa reported that there was a real danger that a lack of attention to culture in policy making [] will overwhelm many of the collective mechanisms of survival which are part of Africas cultures (Commission for Africa 2005;130).
Digital distribution in industries such as design and music has transformed global markets and allowed new industries and consumers to emerge in developing regions such as Africa and Asia (OECD-2, 2005).
The digital distribution of music is but one aspect of much larger economic phenomena, as will be discussed in this paper.
Culture should not only be considered as a means (or a barrier) to achieve economic growth but also as a factor of social cohesion and human development.
(Another approach, adopting the term copyright industries, is considered briefly below while other categorisations, such as design industries, lie beyond the scope of this paper).
They usually cover printing, publishing and multimedia, audiovisual, phonographic and cinematographic productions, crafts and design.
1 The development of notions of creative industries in the last ten years stems from the UK Dept of Culture Media and Sport Creative Industries Mapping Document (London 1998), with a revised version in 2001.
Turnover of the culture and creative sector in the EU, which comprises television, cinema, music, performing arts, and entertainment, generated 654 billion and contributed to 2.6% of the European Unions GDP in 2003.
Another way of assessing the creative economy is by examining what is referred to as the copyright industries.
3 The core copyright industries are industries that are wholly engaged in creation, production and manufacturing, performance, broadcast, communication ad exhibition, or distribution and sales of works and other protected subject matter, Table 1 Contribution of copyright industries to the GDP and employment in % for several countries in 2001 Contribution of copyright industries % to Countries Industries GDP Workforce Singapore Copyright industries 5.7 5.8 Core copyright industries 2.9 3.6 Canada Copyright industries 5.3 7.0 Core copyright industries 3.9 USA Copyright industries 12.0 8.4 Core copyright industries 7.8 4.0 Hungary Copyright industries 6.8 7.1 Core copyright industries 4.0 4.2 Latvia Core + interdependent 4.0 4.4 Source: WIPO, National Studies on Assessing the Economic Contribution of the Copyright-Based Industries, 2006.
The percentage of GDP spent on household expenditure on recreation and culture for most OECD countries shows a positive correlation with per capita income (OECD, 2007).
Figure 2 shows that in OECD countries, the percentage of household expenditures on recreation and culture is included in a range between 2% for Mexico and 8% of the GDP for the United Kingdom.
The trend has remained fairly stable at around 5% of GDP over the last decade.
Figure 2 Household expenditure on recreation and culture as percentage of GDP in 2005 or latest year available 4 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 U ni te d K in gd om A us tr al ia A us tr ia Ic el an d U ni te d St at es Ja pa n C ze ch R ep ub lic Fi nl an d Sp ai n C an ad a Sw ed en Sl ov en ia G re ec e G er m an y Fr an ce D en m ar k Sl ov ak R ep ub lic Sw itz er la nd N et he rl an ds B el gi um Po la nd H un ga ry It al y K or ea L ux em bo ur g Ir el an d M ex ic o Pe rc en ta ge o f G D P Source: OECD, OECD Factbook 2007 - Economic, Environmental and Social Statistics, 2007.
Not only do varying definitions and categorizations often make information incomparable, as we have already seen, but data is also frequently scarce or at best incomplete.
other countries of the region, particularly those in Central America.
Having said this, few culture statistics are currently collected on a regular basis, despite increasing policy needs to assess the importance of revenue generated from cultural industries which thrive on the continent, such as music and crafts.
However, these figures do not capture the value of copyright cultural products traded worldwide.
What they fail to take into account is the value of ideas, creativity and innovation which, in most cases, are transformed into productive capacity requiring intellectual property protection.
The International Standard Classification by Occupations (ISCO) currently does not provide the level of detail required to identify cultural occupations in a truly comprehensive manner.
It is recognized that, in the past, such initiatives have often failed as few countries have sufficient resources for dedicated surveys of culture, and that earlier standards have seen to be centred on OECD or EU perspectives rather than those of developing countries.
The Institutes approach is a fundamentally pragmatic one since it realises that estimating the full value of cultural goods would be too costly.
Developing countries in particular do not have the financial resources to carry out extensive surveys to assess cultural value, and expertise on the special methodologies involved is scarce.
Instead, UIS recommends that countries take a broad-based approach, while understanding the inevitable imperfections of the results produced.
At the same time, UIS will advise national statistical offices that, while adhering to international standards, they should aim to identify the informal sector in any cultural industries that are a national priority.
In addition to making small adjustments to existing surveys, it is always possible for countries to undertake dedicated surveys for priority issues.
In the realm of culture, 5 It is suggested that the Framework will allow countries to choose the sectors which are most appropriate for their national policy, but that the sector definitions will be based on international standards.
As such, while countries may choose different sectors, they will be able to compare themselves with other countries that choose the same sector or sectors.
In the case of a sector study, considerable care should be taken with sample design to ensure that informal, artisan, and amateur craft production is captured.
While in OECD countries it is easy to separate tourists and audiences from locals and performers respectively, this is more difficult in other countries in the world.
exchange of gifts) or amateur/informal production.
Following an unprecedented ratification rate, the Convention entered into force on 18 March 2007.
This binding legal instrument promotes cultural industries as key to sustainable development and poverty reduction and seeks to strengthen international cooperation in the field of cultural industries.
One of the aims of the Convention is to gain a greater understanding of how to measure the 6 UNESCO has published a number of works on the subject matter: Our Creative Diversity, report by World Commission on Culture and Development, 1995; Culture, Creativity and Markets, World Culture Report, 1998; Cultural Diversity, Conflict and Pluralism, World Culture Report, 2000 and International Flows of Selected Cultural Goods and Services, 1994-2003, UIS, 2005.
Conclusion A broader assessment of the economic impact of cultural sectors and products is key to providing a fuller picture of the real impact of culture.
It attracts huge tourist income, investment by national authorities and local people.
The Wall contributes to the sale of all these products, extending its economic impact far beyond the heritage sector.
In theory, an assessment of the economic impact of the Great Wall should take into account its value as a brand for all these products, its value to the people of China as a symbol of national identity as well as its value to the people of the world as an outstanding achievement of humanity.
In addition, the more that the economic value of culture is appreciated, the more people are willing to invest in culture, whether they be public agencies or private companies who recognize the real returns that culture provides.
All these issues can only be addressed through close international co-operation.
John Howkins, The Creative Economy: How People Make Money from Ideas, 2001.
OECD-2, Digital broadband content: mobile content, new content for new platforms, Working party on the information economy, 2005.
Presidencia de la nacin, Secretaria de cultura, Argentina, Cuenta satlite de cultura, 2006.
