It is incumbent upon NACTMUS to facilitate dissemination of evidence of our sectors collective contribution and aspirations, despite the challenges of geographical dispersal.
This conference has elicited a number of case studies and investigations into various contemporary issues within academia.
The greatest period of expansion was in the 1960s and 1970s, with the number of music schools more than doubling, albeit from a low base.
Interrupted by the upheavals of the next two decades, an intense period of lobbying and committees of enquiry ensued around 1950.
Thus the need for a tertiary music school had effectively become a states rights socio-political issue.
The history of the University of Melbournes Faculty of Music explicitly refers to longstanding institutional animosity and rivalry with the School of Music of the Victorian College of the Arts.
An interested observer would find much to study in the personal and collective dynamics that these sample scenarios demonstrate.
Future challenges to the sector may not excite the same community passions as those cited above, particularly if the perceptions of external stakeholders are based on an institutional model that a 21 st century society no longer values or understands, or in some cases no longer needs.
Gillies also suggested that in light of Strong, and also the National Review of School Music (then still in process of finalisation), that a further national review into matters musical might also be warranted, namely one focussing on the tertiary sector (Gillies, 2005, p. 5).
Some staff in member insitutions of NACTMUS have made a strong contribution to the discussions sponsored by the Council for Humanities Arts and Social Sciences (Schippers, 2006).
But if the net result is that a universitys musicians are not seen to be collectively pulling their weight, then a national review of our sector, together with our sister disciplines in the creative arts, might well be instigated.
2007 P. Roennfeldt, for NACTMUS Music in Australian Tertiary Institutions 7 Some spokespersons from within the Australian tertiary music sector have already articulated their own key questions and issues, but without much impact for the time being.
Since Australian students tend not to travel great distances or across state borders for their undergraduate education, at least in broad 2007 P. Roennfeldt, for NACTMUS Music in Australian Tertiary Institutions 8 terms there appears to be a corollary between size of population and the number of institutions offering music degrees.
Queensland and New South Wales, which have the most dispersed populations, also have the widest range of choice between comprehensive conservatoria and niche institutional models.
A much more detailed mapping of demand vs. offerings would need to be undertaken to determine how well there is a match between programs on offer and the potential student base.
As demonstrated by the 2002 AMC survey, few institutions systematically track alumni, but those that do report reasonably high response rates, and good indicators of their graduates employability (Marcellino, 2002, pp.
While this might be taken as read by those involved with tertiary music, the sector needs to advocate more widely the generic and para- disciplinary skills that its degree programs can develop in emerging artists.
However, nearly all of the 26 tertiary music schools surveyed in 2002 reported that creative output and performance were regarded as being relevant to the research agenda of their parent university (Marcellino, 2002).
It is no surprise that research issues have been a standing agenda item for NACTMUS meetings for many years, but the extent to which local institutional practices will validate and support the creative research work of our colleagues will be greatly tested in the next two years.
It would be most worthwhile to map the pathways that some of our students prior learning has taken within other systems, and also whether any of our graduates seek out additional training through TAFE and other providers.
This is particularly so if additional TAFE institutes are considering adding Associate Degrees and Degrees in music in the near future.
For example JMC Academy, which is adopting a national approach with departments already operating in several states, is possibly moving in this direction.
It is now offering Associate Degrees in Popular Music Performance, and maintains a close connection to Macquarie Universitys Department of Contemporary Music Studies (Hayward, 1998).
In light of these significant issues, it is useful at this point to return to the anatomy of the sector.
More than two-thirds of the university based music institutions have experienced a name change, restructure, rebranding or regrouping within the past 10 years.
This is highly interesting, since that universitys Faculty of Music is much smaller than the five other discipline groupings offered within this schema.
Anecdotal evidence, personal records and several individuals memories have been drawn upon in the absence of an authoritative published chronology or website listing of such basic information.
No doubt, each member institution has its own tale to tell about the pitfalls of meta-level branding, the presence or otherwise of corporate memory, and documented evidence of same.
Various layers of message could be drawn from this less than ideal situation.
Sometimes prestigious awards are made in recognition of a tertiary music institutions contribution to national culture Elder Conservatorium and Queensland Conservatorium are two recent examples, both achieving APRA awards, while several individual musicians associated with our institutions have been similarly honoured.
2) A comprehensive database building upon the information captured in the surveys conducted by the AMC in 2002 and 2004 is needed, so as to inform our strategies for lobbying and sector representation.
However, much other useful scholarship has also been produced by staff from within the NACTMUS network.
2007 P. Roennfeldt, for NACTMUS Music in Australian Tertiary Institutions 17 References Australian Government: Department of Education, Science and Training (2005).
Retrieved April 24, 2007 from http://www.dest.gov.au/sectors/higher_education/publications_resources/profiles/highered_annual_report_20 05.htm Australian Vice-Chancellors Committee.
The Sunday Mail, p. 11.
Sydney: University of New South Wales Press.
Hayward, P. (1998).
Lancaster, H. (2003).
Should be Run.
(2007).
Retrieved April 24, 2007, from http://mcakb.wordpress.com/ Music Lovers Rally to Save Conservatorium.
(1981, July 6).
Unpublished honours thesis, Griffith University, Brisbane.
Throsby, D. & Hollister, V. Don't Give Up Your Day Job: An economic study of professional artists in Australia.
Tregear, P. J. (1997).
Study at the VCA.
