Pre-service teacher training for generalist primary teachers ACU Victoria offers a diverse music experience for generalist teachers in first and third year of an early childhood/primary degree and third and fourth year of a Primary Bachelor degree, and also in the two year graduate entry pre-service course, Master of Teaching (Primary).
The subjects (units) run for 12 weeks and include practical music workshops supported by six weeks of lectures that give background and frameworks explaining the importance and relevance of developmental music in education.
Due to the crowded pre-service teacher education curriculum, there are insufficient hours available to allocate to helping students develop appropriate competency and confidence.
This means that for many teachers, they need to attend in-service professional development programs in order to learn more about incorporating music into their class programs effectively.
2 Transforming Learning Communities ACU education One area that ACU appears is addressing in some small way is that of the use of technology and IT applications in teaching and learning music.
We are also establishing an on-line learning community that provides video and other resources for supporting teaching and learning.
These courses are well attended by teachers and interested students.
This includes a study to identify the issues and problems encountered with the transition from primary to secondary school and a study that examines the previous school music experience of our current early childhood students and the repertoire and understanding they bring from their schooling to university.
This project would focus on Australian music education reform and the possible role and interplay of studio teachers with primary classroom teachers.
Any school music education programs that your university is involved in There are plans for the next two years to develop two wider school community music projects.
Statement about music education Although the value of music education has been identified and articulated in policy documentation, and the fact that there is a growing body of evidence to add weight to the importance of the inclusion of quality music programs in schools (Bamford, 2006; Eisner, 2002; Finley, 2011; Pascoe et al., 2005), Bamford suggests there is a discrepancy between mandated arts education (including 3 Transforming Learning Communities ACU education music), and what actually happens in schools (Bamford, 2006; Finley, 2011).
There are many reasons why schools do not or cannot include music education in the curriculum.
It may be the case that those charged with the implementation of education policy have a narrow, rather than a more expanded view of what constitutes intelligence, or do not appreciate the broader benefits of music for learning more broadly, including literacy learning.
However, time constraints and pressures of assessment dictate that the focus remains on the style of intelligence required to complete measurable tasks.
Their own musical skills and sense of self-efficacy are often limited, and even though we are all immersed frequently in music in our daily lives and most of us have the means to listen to any style of music at the time and place of our own choosing, many primary teachers often have limited experience of first-hand music-making.
The majority of primary generalist teachers feel musically inadequate.
Eisner (1999, p. 17) notes that often we are expecting teachers to teach what they do not know and often do not love.
Professor Marie Emmitt Executive Dean Faculty of Education 10 January 2013 4 Transforming Learning Communities ACU education References Alter, F., Hays, T., & OHara, R. (2009).
The challenges of implementing primary arts education.
New York: Waxman Munster.
- examining the discourse of derision in music education.
In S. Leong (Ed.), Musicianship in the 21st Century: Issues, Trends, Possibilities.
Marrickville, NSW: Australian Music Centre.
The Arts and the Creation of Mind.
Finley, S. (2011).
Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE.
Howard Gardner - Fifty Modern Thinkers on Education - From Piaget to the Present.
London: Routledge.
Pascoe, R., Leong, S., MacCallum, J., Mackinlay, E., Marsh, K., & Smith, B., et al.
. (2005).
National review of school music education: augmenting the diminished.
Canberra: Australian Government.
