7. Can you describe any critical incidents that shaped your identity as a music teacher?
The role of an educator, however, needs to extend beyond this core knowledge.
Experienced Music Teachers 51 Kerry: A course that insists that teachers can perform to a competent/excellent standard on at least one instrument.
Larry: To begin with a big picture of what is to be achieved, then to plan around the achievable within this picture.
E.g., learning composition, performance and analysis and then strategies for teaching these things.
Kerry: a course that teaches How to teach Composition in a variety of musical styles, genres and historical periods of music.
Chapter Six 52 Judy: Basic drum playing, basic singing lessons and band/orchestra/choir class conducting, with an actual band.
Teacher education also needs to focus on the development of what has been called soft skills such as interpersonal skills and assertive communication and other administrative tasks.
Continuous learning is required to allow teachers to develop their skill bases further, making choices that are applicable to their individual experiences and talents as well as to the context in which they are practising.
Continuous learning is required to allow teachers to develop their skill bases further, making choices that are applicable to their individual experiences and talents as well as to the context in which they are practising.
Other respondents understood the question to be more focussed on the delivery and application of the process: Terry: Music education is a dedicated ongoing everyday process.
This pushes me to discover things about myself.
[teacher comment], * to realise that we really do not teach...
At the same time, positive relationships with students are essential and need sincerity, so it is a difficult role especially for a beginning teacher.
The critical incidents of four of the teachers who reflected on the river echo some of the common themes given above, while showing great detail about the individuals personal theories about teachers and teaching.
Responses to the second research question (How do these qualities contribute to constructing music teacher identity) emphasized the conflict experienced by many teachers in relation to their identity as a teacher or a musician.
The dichotomy between teacher and music was explored further, as an essential component in the construction of music teacher identity.
Andrea comments on the notion of passion, highlighted by so many responses in the first 3 phases of the study, while Helen also returns to the intrinsic nature of teaching: Andrea: During college I developed a passion for music education and then from the classroom went into it and thought there is where I need to be.
I have had a couple of student teachers through that have a little bit less knowledge of their area, but had great planning and prep skills, and so they still succeeded, but they dont have enough broadness and have to do that researchI think content in the subject area is just so vital and being able to quote more than one example, and have that in your head because in teaching youre having to think on your feet all the time.
The word of caution from Helen about not working for certain things suggests that the balance and nature of professional learning required further probing.
Two teachers were emphatic about the need for flexibility and passion, both of which ranked highly in the earlier phases of the research: Carrie: You have to be flexible.
You need to try different things and you need to keep yourself fresh at all times.
Judy: Sometimes you have to learn to say no. At the conclusion of the interview, each of the six teachers was asked for any other comments relevant to the project and/or to summarise the rationale behind their commitment to music teaching.
Terry: I guess its seeing the potential that develops in students, not just through their ability to progress at music, but the ability of their academic progress as a result of music whilst I love music and I love seeing musical growth, I really like to see the change in the student as a result of them having studied music.
The discussion of attributes was of high importance in relation to how these qualities could be taught (or not taught).
To that end, the findings presented here in written form should be read in answering the three questions outlined at the beginning of this research: 1. What knowledge, skills and attributes does a music teacher need to possess?
In seeking to providing answers to the first research question (What knowledge, skills and attributes does a music teacher need to possess?), reflection on Harrisons (2003, 2004) four broad themes, identified the following issues as significant and frequently occurring: 1. Musical knowledge and skills 1. Musicianship, including theory and aural skills 2. Some instrumental (and/or vocal) skill, including at least one instrument to a high level 3. Conducting skills 2. Pedagogical knowledge and skills 1. Love of /knowledge of content and capacity to communicate it 2. Broad knowledge base style, genre etc. 3. Understandings of diversity in students and approaches to student learning 3. Attributes 1. Passion 2. Flexibility 3. Patience 4. Capacity to engage/motivate 5. Creativity 6. Sense of humour 7. Enthusiasm 8. Love of children 9. Communication 10.
Another facet raised by pre-service and experienced teachers was the notion of ongoing mentoring in the form of professional years; similar to medical internships or pilot licensing (Terry, Carrie) and that full licence to teach should not be granted until this process has been followed.
Denicolo, P., & Pope, M. (2001).
Paper presented at International Society for Music Education Conference, Kuala Lumpur.
Canadian Music Educator, 40(4), 3537.
Psychological Bulletin, 57(4), 327 358.
A study of middle school band students instrument choices.
Hamann, D. L., Baker, D. S., McAllister, P. A., & Bauer, W. I. (2000).
Paper presented at International Society for Music Education Conference, Kuala Lumpur.
Hartwig, K. (2003).
Wollongong, New South Wales: University of Wollongong.
Sounds Australian, 53.
Lautzenheizer, T. (1993).
The joy of inspired teaching.
International Journal of Music Education, 32, 3-23.
Beginning teacher support: Mille-feuilles or doughnuts: An action-research report.
Cities, economic competition and urban policy.
Paper presented at ATEA Conference, Gold Coast.
In R. Colwell & C. Richardson (Eds.), The new handbook of research on music teaching and learning: A project of the Music Educators National Conference (pp.
786809).
Paper presented at ATEA Conference, Gold Coast.
Music teacher education as identity construction.
198206).
Paper presented at International Society for Music Education Conference, Kuala Lumpur.
Buckingham/Philadelphia: Open University Press.
Journal of Music Teacher Education, 13(2), 1827.
