Such attendance will establish a base that can bring about sustained policy and practice change.
The vast majority of these studies have focused on music and visual arts, with few on dance or drama.
has developed its own frameworks and repertoire of describing what happens in arts education learning.
Submissions were called for from key stakeholders, the curriculum documents of each state and territory mapped, surveys distributed to Australian universities providing teacher education programs and to schools across Australia, and a number of case studies conducted in a variety of settings.
2009).
This translates into prospective students experiences in arts education being distant and in many cases sporadic.
Duncum (1999) goes as far as describing pre-service teaching of primary generalists as the black hole of art education (p.
The study investigated the manifestations of drama anxiety experienced by these students and what the students felt could help with this.
Wright (1999) stated that these findings have pedagogical implications for teaching of students at any level, although the findings of this research have limited generalizability due to three features of the research conducted by one lecturer/tutor, in one specific university, and only involving second year pre-service teachers.
Approximately 50% of students indicated that they 5 had no prior outside of school dance experience, and 32% could not recall participating in dance activities at school.
Of those who recalled dance activities at school, 36% had pleasant memories of this while 64% remembered unpleasant experiences.
Other respondents indicated that they would teach dance but with particular restrictions.
A moderate relationship was found between background in one arts area and background in other arts areas, and a weak to moderate relationship between confidence in one arts area and confidence in other arts areas.
2005).
2005).
As a result, music education and development of students skills in K-6 music is not always continuous or sequential.
2009) projected that teaching the primary education curriculum is a far too demanding expectation of a generalist teachers subject-knowledge (p.
2009).
While the teachers in this study believed that they created a quality-learning environment in which creative and higher order thinking was occurring, they were unable to articulate how they were doing so, or how they knew that this was occurring.
Anderson (2003) conducted a study involving two NSW primary school teachers with an interest in drama, to investigate the realities of teaching drama experienced by these individuals.
Pedagogical issues expressed by the participating teachers included students lack of prior knowledge and experience in dance, students overdependence on language-based ways of knowing (wanting to talk it out) as opposed to embodied ways of knowing (physically experimenting with movements), and successful incorporation of individual and collaborative creative practices.
These teachers also reported a lack of support from other teachers and pressure from performance expectations.
Alter et al.s (2009) study of 19 Australian generalist primary school teachers perspectives of arts education signified a need for greater support of qualified teachers in the classroom, with the majority of participants in the study indicating that they had little or no in-service training or support immediately prior to or following the introduction of the then most recent NSW Creative Arts K-6 syllabus.
(2005) acknowledge the lack of support given to primary generalists in relation to teaching music and advocate a need to provide greater support for practicing teachers through in-service training opportunities.
There has been substantial debate over the perceived benefits of arts education being taught by a generalist teacher as opposed to a teacher specializing in that field (Russell-Bowie 2006).
2009).
A lower educational priority is attributed to arts education in the curriculum, both by schools and policy makers (Dimitriades et al.
Lack of departmental support and in-service training were also identified as contributing to this.
Peers (2008) investigated the attitudes of Victorian primary school generalist teachers to visual arts education, and these teachers practice of visual arts education.
The author found that predominantly superficial learning experiences occurred in instances where the teacher lacked the knowledge and understanding necessary to structure teaching and learning in such a way as to foster particular creative processes.
because it is required or because they value and enjoy it) were two key factors influencing the effectiveness of the drama teaching and learning practices that occurred.
The heart of curriculum transfer and transformation is in the classroom.
It requires the collaboration of various talents including classroom teachers, subject matter experts, and curriculum specialists who are engaged in a process of collective knowledge sharing of professional practice, with practical and eclectic treatment of a variety of curriculum factors.
The major idea of collaborative inquiry is to research with rather than on people (Bray et al.
The reviewed studies do not provide this detail.
Marsh, 2000 1. Jeanneret, 2006 2. Montague, 2004 3. Pascoe et al., 2005 4. Pitts & Davidson, 2000 5. Smith & Southcott, 2004 6. Stevens, 2001 7. Temmerman, 2008 8. Bresler, 1996 9. Gamble, 1988 10.
Mills, 1989 11.
Nakamura, 1999 12.
27-52.
Chrysostomou, S. (2004), Interdisciplinary approaches in the new curriculum in Greece: A focus on music education, Journal for Research in Music Education, 105: 5, pp.
Hauptfleisch, S. (1997), Transforming South African music education: A systems view, University of Pretoria.
Hudson, P. and Hudson, S. (2007), Examining preservice teachers preparedness for teaching art, International Journal of Education & the Arts, 8: 5, pp.
Jeanneret, N. (2006), The national review of music in schools and the endless debate about music in primary schools, Australian Journal of Music Education, 1, pp.
Klopper, C. (2004), Variables impacting on the delivery of music in the learning area arts and culture in South Africa, University of Pretoria.
In The transformation of musical arts education, (ed.), Potgieter, H. Cape Town, North-West University.
Russell-Bowie, D. (2009b), What me?
Smith, R. and Southcott, J. (2004), The effect of policy change on the Australian music curriculum: Inclusivity or de-skilling?, In International Society of Music Education Conference, (ed.), David Forrest.
Educational Record, 197-205.
In The structure of knowledge and the curriculum, (eds.) Ford, G. W. & Pugno, L. Chicago, Rand McNally.
227 - 237.
