The aim of this research was to ascertain the level of confidence of students completing a one-year primary teacher training programme in relation to teaching in general and teaching music in particular.
The implications of the findings are discussed and alternative ways of addressing the problem are considered.
In relation to teacher training, the need for training providers to satisfy rigorous criteria set out by the Teacher Development Agency in terms of the curriculum and the amount of time that trainees have to spend in school has limited the opportunities for trainees to engage in musical training, while in their school placements opportunities will depend on the extent to which music is valued in the school, available resources and the quality of support on offer from teachers.
(2002) and there is an urgent need for continuing professional development or better initial training to address specific musical skills and musical vocabulary.
She suggested that children valued the subject less if it was not taught by their own class teacher as part of their whole curriculum and suggested that generalist teaching allows greater opportunity for music to take place as the need arises because a class teacher has knowledge of individual children which a visiting specialist teacher cannot hope to match.
While a music specialist may be able to interpret the National Curriculum requirements the generalist class teacher may feel that they cannot contribute usefully to the skill and knowledge development which is essential if children are to move systematically through their musical education.
Each Institution approached the inclusion of music in the primary teacher training curriculum in a slightly different way.
They were also asked some open questions about the level of training that they had received to prepare them for teaching music to their class, whether they felt that this was adequate, and what other elements of musical training, if any, they would have liked to have been available.
Where it was possible for the students to complete them face-to-face there was a greater response.
9 Table 2 about here Instruments played The students were asked about the extent of their musical experience.
For 23 students (7%) music was included in their first degree.
34 students (10%) reported playing a stringed instrument.
Table 5 and Figures 2 and 3 about here Relationship of confidence to musical expertise Further analysis was undertaken to establish how many instruments each student played.
In relation to whether specialist teachers should teach music the trend was reversed.
Some students indicated that they did not want specialists teaching music but that the extent of training on offer needed to be enhanced to enable non-specialists to teach it well.
I have found that it is often neglected in the curriculum as people are unsure of how to teach it.
Several students indicated that there should be flexibility so that teachers who felt that they lacked sufficient skills need not teach music.
However, where teachers wish to teach music to their class they should be able to.
Other responses ranged from 0.3 to 81 hours.
The wide range is because a small number of students were taking music as their specialist option, while others taking other options did not take music (see Figure 7).
59 (18%) felt that it was.
11 students (3%) indicated that they were taking a music specialization stream.
I have had no input concerning schemes of work or expectations.
Among the non-players only 7.6% (13) felt that the amount of training was adequate 92.4% (157) indicated that it was not.
Of those playing one instrument 23.6% felt that the training was sufficient (13), 76.4% did not (55).
I feel it was not fair on the future children we will be teaching to only allow us half the subjects on this course to be done in any depth I feel wholly unprepared.
I have limited musical ability and dont really feel prepared for teaching the subject.
Teacher confidence is also an important determinant of the extent to which music is taught in the classroom (Mills, 1989; Gifford, 1993; Bresler; 1993; Russell-Bowie 1993, 2002) and the quality of that teaching (Byo, 2000).
The difficulties with this approach are that the teacher training curriculum is already overloaded and that an increase in training to teach music would reduce the time available for training in other subjects.
It may be that in the 21 st century it is unrealistic to expect the generalist primary teacher to manage the complexity and volume of the entire curriculum.
This has been shown to have a positive impact on teaching and learning in music at KS2.
In addition, visiting specialists cannot integrate every music lesson into the wider curriculum of every class that they teach (Hoffer and Hoffer, 1987) and this creates problems for adopting an integrated view of the arts within the wider school curriculum (Glover and Young, 1999; Smith, 1992; Livermore, 1998; Livermore and McPherson, 1998, Glover and Ward, 1993, McPherson and Dunbar-Hall, 2001).
They also have less knowledge of individual children than the class teacher (Mills, 1993) and are unable to teach music as frequently as the class teacher (Mills, 1989,1993), although this has to be balanced against evidence that teachers with little musical experience are less likely to incorporate music into their everyday teaching (Verastro 23 and Leglar, 1992).
In conclusion, we need as a matter of urgency to develop strategies for enabling music within the UK National Curriculum to be taught effectively in primary schools, to empower teachers so that they feel confident to successfully and effectively teach music and be receptive to new ideas.
25 Glover, J. & Young, S (1999) Primary Music: Later Years.
London: Falmer Press Hargreaves, D. Lamont, A., Marshall, N., & Tarrant, M. (2002) Young peoples music in and out of school: A study of pupils and teachers in primary and secondary schools.
McPherson, G. & Dunbar-Hall, P. (2001) Australia.
In Hargreaves, D. & A. North (Eds) Musical development and learning: The International Perspective, pp 14-26.
Miliband, D. (2004) Excellence and Enrichment: New Frontiers in Music Education.
British Journal of Music Education, 6(2), 125-138.
Australian Journal of Music Education, 2002,1, 33-44.
Thomas, R. (1997) The Music National Curriculum: Overcoming a compromise, British Journal of Music Education, 14(3), 217-235.
Wheway, D. (2006) How is workforce reform affecting music in many primary schools?
Ideas for activities.
Singing training 19% (66) Singing and playing instruments.
How it should be taught across key stages, examples of teaching guides which can support the class teacher.
General information on how to teach it in order to meet national requirements.
