Similar findings were made in First We See: The National Review of Visual Education, highlighting the decline of visual art education in teacher training (DEST, 2008).
Theoretical connections Self-efficacy is defined as beliefs in ones capabilities to organise and execute the courses of action required to produce given attainments (Bandura, 1997, p. 3).
The statement also supports the notion that arts experience can be the first meaningful point of engagement in the education system for students.
This suggests teachers require significant training to help develop a strong sense of perceived capability towards teaching in the area of arts education.
When an experience (or performance) is perceived as successful, self-efficacy is raised.
If the observer can identify the skills with the modeller, teacher self-efficacy can be enhanced.
2. How are these sources of self-efficacy information likely to influence their own arts education practices?
An adapted version of Cavana, Delahaye and Sekarans (2003, p.171) 15 stages of content analysiswas used as a guide to identify key themes and meanings.
Three main categories emerged from the content analysis: 1. supervising teacher practice (vicarious experience), 2. supervising teacher feedback(verbal persuasion), and 3. the profile of arts as a subject experienced by the participant (vicarious experience).
Vicarious experiences (also known as modelling) allowed participants to personally experience arts education teaching practices.
One beginning early childhood teacher described a negative experience with a supervising teacher in a kindergarten.
She felt disheartened that arts practices were not being modelled within this particular early childhood education setting: One of the saddest moments of my practical teaching was when I was studying my Grad Diploma and I was at a well-regarded kindergarten.
I was there for two weeks and basically the same activities were set out.
This went against all my beliefs about early childhood education and I felt very sorry for those children (Beginning Teacher, B).
(Beginning Teacher, C).
The participants who described these experiences felt that the supervising teacher did not value the arts, which influenced the beginning teachers values in relation to the teaching of the arts in early childhood classrooms.
The children sang along happily but my supervising teacher told me to keep the noise down so as not to disturb the children next door (Beginning Teacher, F).
When I started teaching them, I got in trouble (Beginning Teacher, I).
The portrayal of the arts would lead the supervising teacher to model the teaching of the arts with certain characteristics.
final thoughts The previous results provide an interesting starting point for analysis in the investigation of beginning early childhood teachers beliefs on their pre-service teacher education.
This could suggest that, since these events were remembered, they are held as possible sources of efficacy for the beginning teacher.
From this research, two issues are raised: (1) teacher education and (2) professional development.
First, how do universities control how supervising teachers demonstrate quality arts education practices?
The second issue raised is ensuring professional development opportunities in arts education for early childhood teachers.
Through ongoing professional development, these teachers can begin to value the arts in the decisions about implementing curriculum.
In conclusion, current practices in arts education courses within early childhood teacher education must be reviewed if teachers are expected to learn skills they can use in the classroom.
Closer links must be made with supervising teachers.
For example, what are the current influences on teacher self-efficacy for early childhood teachers in schools?
Can a generalist teacher have strong teacher self-efficacy for all key learning areas?
Bandura, A. (1997).
In P.M.
Shand (Ed), Music education entering the 21st century (pp.
8590).
A longitudinal study of teacher burnout and perceived self-efficacy in classroom management.Teaching and Teacher Education, 16, 239253.
Applied business research: Qualitative and quantitative methods.
Coladarci, T. (1992).
Teachers sense of efficacy and commitment to teaching.
Eisner, E. W. (1988).
Ministerial Council on Education, Training and Youth Affairs (MCETYA) (Federal) and Cultural Ministers Council (2007).
Canberra: Department of Communication, Information Technology and the Arts.
Beverly Hills, CA: Sage.
Temmerman, N. (1997).
(2001).
Teaching and Teacher Education, 17(7), 783805.
