Using a narrative informed case study methodology, a story constellation derived from a beginning generalist teacher and a school principal is revealed.
Research in Australia (Russell-Bowie, 1993, 2004) and around the world (Hennessy et al., 2001; Oreck, 2001, 2004; Smithrim & Upitis, 2001; Upitis et al., 1999) confirms that generalist teachers delivering arts education often grapple with challenges including a lack of confidence, motivation and knowledge to deliver the Corresponding author: Susanne Garvis 107 http://journals.cambridge.org Downloaded: 14 May 2012 IP address: 132.234.242.15 Susanne Ga r v i s and D onna Pende rgas t curriculum successfully.
. .within schools (Bamford, 2007, p. 48).
It acknowledged that the cycle of neglect highlighted in the Senate Inquiry (1995) still continued, typified by: a lack of continuity in teachers own experiences in the Arts; cutbacks in teacher education; a lack of support from school administration; declining centralized curriculum support; declining use of primary specialist teachers; and devolution of decision-making to schools (Senate Inquiry, 1995).
xvi).
xvi).
Three key principles underpinned the statement to drive change by laying a foundation for stronger co-ordination between educational institutions and also to guide arts and education leaders to ensure that the Australian education system helps children and young people to achieve.
Using a story constellation narrative approach, divergent accounts of practice in music and arts education begin to emerge, revealing the tensions and challenges the teacher and principal experience in their practice as educators and teaching professionals.
It is often used to examine individuals uniqueness and commonality . . . their stories . . . how they function in their ordinary pursuits and milieus (Stake, 1995, p. 1) in order to gain greater understanding of the case (Stake, 1995, p. 15).
A narrative approach was employed with a focus on the beginning generalist teacher and the principal.
The primary research products of a narrative inquiry are constructed or co-constructed accounts that re-present the participants personal and professional experiences (Clandinin & Connelly, 2000).
In this study, a story constellation narrative approach was utilised to move the interview data from a featureless text to a story.
According to Craig (2007, p. 6): Constellations allow for school life to be characterized without the flattening or dismissing of teachers and principals knowledge and their relationships and interactions amid the flow of events in the educational enterprise . . . [where] . . . the constraints of both formalist and reductionist investigations are avoided.
In the story constellation approach, Stories of community are the stories told about communities, whereas community stories are stories that communities tell.
Accordingly, readers may contribute to the dilemmas posed within the text (Barone & Eisner, 1997, p. 75).
The field notes assisted in the development of a greater understanding of the context and in fleshing out the story constellations.
However, Clandinin and Connelly argue that no matter how compelling our narrative inquiry field texts are, we need to fight against our desire to let [them] speak for themselves (2000, p. 130; see also Gough, 2003, p. 30).
Schoo l con t ex t The Birkdale Catholic Primary School is located in a relatively low socio-economic area on the outskirts of a large town in Queensland, Australia.
All Queensland schools are required to teach the eight key learning areas (maths, english, science, arts, technology, study of society and environment, health and physical education and language other than english) mandated by the Queensland Studies Authority.
There are no specialist teachers for the other areas of the arts.
The generalist teacher is expected to teach the arts as per the recommended guidelines (Essential Learning Statement, 2007) from the Queensland Studies Authority.
He was one of those arty, farty people that really acted it; you know doing stupid things.
Steven breathes in slowly and looks around the room.
Well to be really honest, the only thing I could say is that I listen to music, especially when I am driving.
He pauses, catching his thoughts before continuing.
the researcher asks.
But I think the most important thing is that it gives an area of outlet for children who are not academic to feel like, you know, I can do this and I know I can do this well and there is nothing wrong with this.
Elizabeth inhales slowly.
Elizabeth continues, talking about the benefits of learning a musical instrument.
She reflects on trying to include the arts as a teacher.
The specialist teacher is only here for a few days a week.
She doesnt get paid to help me, only to teach so many classes.
The programme is part of an initiative called Child Write Program.
And, they presented on assembly on our parade area to the rest of the school We also have instrumental performances from the children who learn an instrument.
There are various categories the dance category, instrumental music.
I think the arts are an area that really lends itself to that, because like I said, a lot of teachers dont have the skills in some of those areas and I think the clever teacher tries to use whats around.
I think at the moment, what is happening on the national scene is very much driven by government agenda, we have these levels of skills and if youre not going to get that then sack the principal and teachers wont receive bonuses.
I suppose I have a worry that if we are going down the line where everyone has to be over the benchmarks for literacy and numeracy, youre going to see the slide in some of the subjects like music, dance and drama.
And I think to get the best out of kids you do need to have specialist teachers.
I would hate to see the music and the arts disappear in the current reforms because it is a relaxing thing for the kids and it is also something that is just out there.
I would do courses if they were available but I havent heard of anything.
You know that type of thing.
So it probably depends on the level of commitment by the uni[versity] to what they want people to come out with.
Id like to see more being done in front of me so that I could do something with it.
It needs to be extended over a couple of semesters.
In J. B. Wiggins (Ed.), Religion as Story (pp.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
RUSSELL-BOWIE, D. (2004) Arts education: are the problems the same across five countries?
Paper presented at the Australian Association for Research in Education, 2004, Melbourne.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
