Informal popular music learning practices and their differences from formal music education Informal popular music learning practices involve two main approaches, both of which take place largely in the absence of adult supervision or guidance.
19, no. 1, pp.5-30.
They place more emphasis on musicality or feel than on technical prowess.
Such learning practices differ from the teaching and learning strategies associated with formal music education, in so far as they involve: learning based on personal choice, enjoyment, identification and familiarity with the music, as distinct from being introduced to new and often unfamiliar music; recorded music as the principal, aural means of musical transmission and skill- acquisition, as distinct from notated or other written or verbal instructions and exercises; self-teaching and peer-directed learning, as distinct from adult supervision and guidance, curricula, syllabi or external assessment; the assimilation of skills and knowledge in haphazard ways according to musical preferences, rather than following a progression from simple to complex; integration of listening, performing, improvising and composing throughout the learning process, as distinct from their increasing differentiation.
Music curriculum as lived experience 3 1314 year-old students.
Many practicalities are involved in curriculum innovation, including of course the usual ones of there being not enough space, time, equipment and staff, amongst others.
Stage one Firstly, pupils were asked to bring in their own choice of music.
The project was introduced through a brief discussion of how popular musicians learn.
Pupils then formed small friendship groups, ranging in number from 2 to 7. Being able to work with friends is a crucial part of informal popular music learning practices, so as much freedom as possible was given.
The teachers and myself did not know how things would Music curriculum as lived experience 4 turn out.
It sounds like chaos.
Someone is singing along to the piano pitches.
Listening and counting are evidently occurring: -Nicholas: How many beats are there?
More inaudible talk.
-Adimbola: Hurry up.
-Nicholas: How many beats, how many beats are there?
-Nicholas: Its either 16 or 32.
The class spontaneously applauded.
Many answers emerge, from which I have picked just two strands to introduce in this article.
During the second lesson an explicit beat emerges, then disappears.
Gradually something approximating to a rock beat emerges.
During the next lesson, they got themselves perfectly in time without any help whatsoever.
Firstly, not being taught was part of the fun, and that was generally agreed by everyone.
-Adimbola: I think thats a better way.
So, we tried to handle it ourselves but if we cant do it someone will help us.
Strand two I asked pupils Since youve been doing the project, have you noticed any differences in the ways that you listen to music, say if youre watching Top of The Pops [the most famous UK charts show] or something at home?
I think I have because Ive been listening to music recently and Ive like kind of picked up the different rhythms and stuff.
-Ellie: Yeah.
I listen more to the beat more than the lyrics I think [inaudible] we were really concentrating on the, like, rhythm and the beat of that song, and now, to me, like, in songs, the rhythm and that stands out more thanI dont really take any notice of the words.
What happens next?
It retained the central task of copying music aurally from a CD.
The song was a riff-based instrumental version of a funk song, with a high level of repetition over a four-chord cycle, so it was well-suited to the task.
However, this quickly gave way to enthusiasm, and in most cases a huge amount of observable enjoyment, as students took charge of organising their groups, sharing out riffs, switching riffs around to fit smoothly end-on to each other, and coming to the realisation that riffs could be played in harmony: -Oh look, look, look, look, look, look, look!
-Or, or, we two can play together.
-Play it.
In one school the Head of Music said That was a really positive lesson, as pupils finally left the room having been prized off the last remaining instruments.
In Music curriculum as lived experience 9 interviews afterwards, I asked pupils If you were to be told now to go back to stage one, go into a room with your own CD and just copy it, without any guidance, like you did before, do you think you could do it better now?
At the present stage of the research a number of possible routes for the further development of similar exercises suggest themselves.
Some concluding thoughts I put the word concluding in inverted commas, because as mentioned earlier, this research is very much on-going rather than having reached a point of conclusion.
For example: What are the effects of giving students more autonomy to direct their own learning; what advantages and disadvantages are involved in teachers standing back and being prepared to watch them making mistakes; and do students learn from mistakes, as many of them seem to believe in the current project?
How much help do they want?
To what extent might such approaches enhance pupils musical participation in the community, and the formation of bands away from the classroom?
Music curriculum as lived experience 10 Closer observation of such classroom activities might also cast new light on childrens musical development.
