Greater support is required to reverse the documented snapshot of low teacher self-efficacy for music education in Queensland generalist teacher classrooms.
People use efficacy beliefs to guide their lives by being self-organising, pro- active, self-regulating and self-reflecting.
Te a ch e r s e l f - e ffi c a cy Teacher self-efficacy beliefs determine the level to which the teacher will teach in the classroom.
Successful mastery experience of a task will strengthen teacher self- efficacy.
It includes words of praise from colleagues or assistance and advice for future actions of work.
Few studies have examined teacher self-efficacy for music during the beginning years of teaching after graduation from teacher education programmes.
Since it is hypothesised that teacher self-efficacy forms in the beginning phase of teaching, this study decided to focus on beginning generalist teachers still within the first three years since their graduation from teacher education.
2. Does teacher self-efficacy for music compared with teacher self-efficacy for English and maths increase/decrease during the beginning phase of teaching?
An information letter was provided to potential participants.
Two hundred and one beginning generalist teachers responded, with an almost 100% response rate.
Beginning teachers were located in state, independent and Catholic schools.
The main aim of the questionnaire was to measure beginning teacher self-efficacy for music teaching through personal ranking of their perceived capability.
The preparation of the questionnaire included a review of instructions and procedures to minimise response bias.
Participants were aged between 21 and 52 years.
Fac t o r ana l y s i s , r e l i ab i l i t y and means Since it is a relatively new measure, the adapted version of the Teacher Sense of Efficacy scale was tested using factor analysis and reliability analysis.
The reliability of the full 24-item scales was 0.98 for music, 0.97 for English and 0.98 for maths.
Multiple comparisons were then made between the dependent variables using either Tukey HSD tests or Games Howell tests, with SPSS showing levels of significance below 0.05.
There was significant difference in teacher self-efficacy for music between one year experience and two and three years experience tested, F(2,198) = 10.539, p < 0.05.
There was a significant difference in teacher self-efficacy for maths between one year of experience and two and three years of experience tested, F(2,198) = 7.104, p < 0.05.
D i s c u s s i o n and imp l i c a t i o n s It is of both theoretical and practical importance to understand the importance of teacher self-efficacy for music and the sources that inform teacher self-efficacy when teachers make assessment judgements about their own perceived capability to teach music.
The above results bring to light levels of teacher self-efficacy for music (mean = 3.44) compared with English (7.06) and maths (7.02) for beginning generalist teachers in Queensland, Australia.
Considering that teacher self-efficacy beliefs are considered to be the most pliable early in teaching experience, beginning teachers in this study had higher perceived capability for teaching English and maths compared with music.
Once these beliefs are established, Bandura (1997) suggests beliefs are resistant to change unless there is a shock of some kind to provoke a reassessment of capability.
For example, teachers may have gained greater mastery experience for teaching English andmaths because theymay have spent greater time teaching these areas compared with music.
The study would have also benefited from being replicated with larger samples and within other states of Australia.
This study was based in the state of Queensland only with generalist beginning teachers.
Previous research suggests support structures are important for the development of teacher self-efficacy for music during teacher education (Telemachou, 2007; Vannatta-Hall, 2010).
Universities could also provide continual support to beginning teachers beyond the point of graduation.
A challenge for future research is to identify characteristics of the schools that might affect the development of beginning teachers beliefs for music and to map relationships between specific school characteristics and teachers sense of efficacy.
Teacher Education and Special Education, 17, 8695.
International Journal of Education and the Arts, 10(9).
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.
New York: Teachers College Press.
BROUWERS, A. & TOMIC, W. (2000) A longitudinal study of teacher burnout and perceived self-efficacy in classroom management.
Journal of Educational Psychology, 95, 821832.
Stanford: Stanford University Press.
MCPHERSON, G. E. & MCCORMICK, J. (2006).
ORECK, B. (2001).
The Arts in Teaching: An Investigation of Factors Influencing Teachers Use of the Arts in the Classroom.
ORECK, B. (2004).
Queensland: Queensland College of Teachers.
International Journal of Music Education, 30, 2634.
VANNATTA-HALL, J. (2010).
(1990).
To what extent can you craft good questions for your students in: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Music English Maths 98 http://journals.cambridge.org Beg inn i ng gene ra l i s t t eache r s e l f - e fficacy f o r mus i c c ompa red w i t h m a t hs and Eng l i sh 12.
How much can you do to calm a student who is disruptive or noisy in: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Music English Maths 16.
To what extent can you provide an alternative explanation or example when students are confused in: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Music English Maths 21.
