Note that all of my comments are made in relation to the government school sector in Victoria.
Relevant Historical Background to Music Education Policy in Victorian Government Schools When planning for the future of music education policy and practice, it is essential to consider the lessons of history which, not only highlight many of the current strengths and weaknesses of school music education provision , but also enable informed decisions to be made that will hopefully avoid many of the mistakes of the past.
2 Given the lack of musical skills and knowledge among generalist teachers, a system of on-staff or more usually itinerant singing teachers was adopted which resulted in a comparatively large percentage of children learning musicin 1892-93, 33.1% of school children were receiving instruction in music from visiting singing masters and on-staff teaching licensed to teach singing.2 Several attempts had been made to charge fees for children receiving musical instruction, but by 1972when free , secular and compulsory education under the Department of Public Instruction came into beingthe idea of charging fees for singing had been abandoned and musical instruction was provided through (often itinerant) specialist teachers.
However, with the economic depression, all singing masters together with the Inspector of Music were retrenched in 1893 and a system which required generalist primary teachers to teach music was instituted, albeit that the system was largely ineffective due to the lack of competence to teach music among generalist teachers.
By the 1920s, the lack of classroom music teaching in Victorian government primary schools saw the appointment of a Supervisor of Music and the employment of specialist music teachers in Melbourne and major rural centres.
The obvious conclusion to be drawn is that the optimal means of providing for music teaching in government primary schools for specialist music teachers to be appointed to all primary schools (as has traditionally been the case in government secondary schools) to enable students to receive a sequential, developmental and continuous music education during their primary school years.
2 Stevens, p. 373.
A little recognised but highly significant Australian study undertaken in the West Metropolitan Region of Sydney during the mid 1970s of the development and implementation of a Kodly-based primary music curriculum3 clearly demonstrated that the 234 Year 6 students who were part of the music program achieved significantly higher in several non-musical areas of the curriculum than the 251 children at otherwise equivalent schools who did not receive this form of musical training.
This has led to gross inequities of opportunity, especially at the primary school level, for young people to receive a musical education in the government school system.
Accordingly, DEECD should mandate minimum standards of music education provision and monitor school performance through a Music Curriculum Implementation Manager (or similar designation).
School Music Advisory Group (or similarly designated group) should be established to provide advice to the government through the Music Curriculum Implementation Manager.
Hoermann and G.F.
Herbert, Report and evaluation: A developmental programme of music education for primary school (Kodly-based), Educational Supplies Pty Ltd, Brookvale, NSW, 1979.
However, the likelihood of this being funded in the current economic climate is not strong.
School s should be required to nominate a member of the teaching staff who is competent in both musical skills/knowledge and music pedagogy (curriculum development and implementation) as its Music Coordinator.
If no existing member of staff is competent to undertake this role, the school should be required to obtain such a person in the next round of staff appointments by setting both musical skills/knowledge and music pedagogy as criteria for one of these appointments.
aMuse), should ensure that appropriate teacher professional development courses are made available for Music Coordinators.
Anecdotal information indicates that in one teacher education course at a Victorian University, students could receive as little as six hours of contact time devoted to classroom music teaching; these students were graduated with the expectation that they were competent to teach all subjects forming the primary school curriculum and subsequently gained VIT registration as such.
http://www.mca.org.au/images/pdf/mca_preservice_finalreport.pdf 5 through set of minimum standards for music for primary teacher registration, and (ii) be mandatory for all pre-service primary teacher education institutions.
Music teacher professional associations (e.g.
(c) Instrumental music instruction in government schools In order to ensure uniform provision and therefore equality of opportunity for students to have access to learning a musical instrument in government schools, instrumental music instruction should be offered only from the beginning of secondary schooling except for strings which, where possible, should be offered from year 5 in primary schools.
the annual allocation of $27 million to musical instruments [instrumental music instruction] in the DEECD budget should be retained.
Other instrumentssuch as contemporary popular style guitar, drums, etcmay be provided through classroom music programs, by schools employing local tutors, by schools providing opportunities for students to have access to fee-for-service instrumental tuition, through online courses or where schools specifically request it, tuition given by a member of the proposed Instrumental Music Service (see below).
VIT policy (2011) states that ...
Regardless of VIT registration or otherwise, providers of instrumental music tuition are generally not engaged in teaching classes but rather teach students on a one-to-one or small group basis and/or undertake the role of director of musical ensembles which involves rehearsal and leadership of musical performances, a role which is more akin to that of professional conductor than a teacher per se.
6 Unlike classroom music teachers, providers of instrumental music instruction require not only advanced level instrumental and/or vocal performance skills but also highly specialised industry-based skills such as aural and visual perception applied to music performance situations, conducting and interpretative skills, composing and arranging abilities, ensemble coordination and concert management skills, etc. These advanced level skills are not those that may be developed within the usual three year undergraduate music degree; development of these skills requires years of industry experience and/or higher degree level discipline-based study.6 The requirements for providers of instrumental music instruction are therefore qualitatively different from those of classroom music teachers.
According to van Oosten, Historically IMTs [instrumental music teachers] were employed and allocation by the region and could be moved from school to school at the end of the year based on needs across the region.
The Department of Education allocated an amount of teaching time (in days, according to instrument type) to each school.
Now [2009], schools are allocated a dollar amount ...
with which they employ their own IMTs.
The IMTs are solely the responsibility of the individual school/s.7 Given that most instrumental music instructionindividual and small group lessons as well as music ensemble rehearsals and performancesrelate to co-curricular or extra-curricular programs, instrumental music instructors, both VIT registered teachers and non-registered instructors, in government schools could be employed by an Instrumental Music Service without requiring VIT registration.
Appropriate merit-based recognition for teacher training qualifications and/or advanced level industry-based performance qualifications and/or experience should be given to instrumental music teachers/instructors currently employed as school-based personnel by the DEECD.
7 van Oosten, Y., Eastern Metropolitan Region Instrumental Music Teacher Induction Guide, 2009, p. 5. 8 Note that some regions had (in 2009) well-coordinated arrangements in place for instrumental musicsee van Oosten, 2009.
