John Paynter, in W. Salaman, Personalities in World Music Education (Salaman 1988: 13) Music in primary schools I start by outlining my view of the place of music in primary schools.
18623_CH01.qxd 11/5/09 11:56 am Page 1 Not all activities that sometimes pass for music in primary school are, in my terms, music.
Learning to operate a piece of computer software is not music, but using it to enhance composing or performing is a thoroughly musical activity.
But I do not engage primary pupils in composing, performing, and listening out of any vocational motiverather because I want them to grow through music.
I mean by this that primary pupils ideally do most, if not all, of their music with their class teacher, not a specialist teacher who sees them only for music.
If this is true of other areas, why is it not true of music?
In this sort of lesson, the teacher does need to be in musical control.
But there is no need for these people to do all the music teaching in the school.
Similarly, the business of facilitating the musical activity of pupils must be pleasurable and satisfying for the teacher.
Primary music teachers I have said that music is a subject for all teachers.
Many pri- mary schools3 went to the trouble of arranging for musicians working in the community to carry out projects in their school (DES 1978; DES 1982; DES 1985).
However, the special music teachers tended to operate in differ- ent ways from teachers with curriculum responsibility in any other subject.
This remains the case today.
Moreover, in recent years, more primary schools have received projects given by musicians working in the community, or from arts organizations such as orchestras.
While many of these projects are 1: PRIMARY TEACHERS AND MUSIC4 1 In the Primary Survey (DES 1978: 21), HMI found that 40 per cent of 7-year-olds, 50 per cent of 9-year-olds, and 55 per cent of 11-year-olds were taught music by someone other than their class teacher.
2 In a survey of the opinions of 465 primary teachers, the Primary Schools Research and Development Group (1983) found that 26.6 per cent of teachers thought there was little need for all teachers to be able to teach music.
Interestingly, music remained the most sought- after subject strength in an analysis that I carried out over a three-week period in the spring of 1989, a time when one might have expected primary schools to be attempting to develop their subject strengths in mathematics, English, and science, in anticipation of the introduction of the National Curriculum in these subjects in September 1989.
The Plowden Report (CACE 1967) came out in favour of it more than 40 years ago.
Second, many music curriculum leaders have not developed an ability to raise the confidence of their colleagues.
The same is true of some of the community musicians who visit primary schools with the aim of supporting the teaching there.
They speak of what they perceive to be their own musical inadequacies; perhaps they do not play the piano, or perhaps they are not confident singers.
Many have experience of playing one or more instruments, perhaps by ear.
Although many aspiring primary teachers lack confidence in music, others have no such worries.
Perhaps they have taken piano lessons for some years, or achieved an A level5 in music.
They may have taken some optional extra courses in music while they were studying as teachers, or they may have entered a teacher training course on completion of a music degree.
They can make positive statements about their abilities and achievements as composers, per- formers, and listeners.
Perhaps they have specialized in performing at the expense of composing, or perhaps their listening experience has been narrow.
But they know that they start music teaching from a position of some strength.
We seek to develop musical self-esteem in those whom we teach.
The view that pupils with self-esteem achieve more, and that the relationship is, to some extent, causal, underpins much contemporary educational practice.
Failure motivates but rarely.
This means thinking about the options that teachers have when deciding how to help pupils to achieve a musical objective, and not always making a specialist selection.
But activities alone do not make a curricu- lum.
We need to think also about the aims and purposes of music teaching, and about balance, progression, and evaluation.
We must consider the rela- tionship of music to the whole primary curriculum, and the role of music within the life of the school.
The structure of this book reflects this view.
In Part I, the focus is on the organiza- tion of music-making.
The context of this music-making is simply a music curriculum which is active, for all, and fun.
There is an emphasis on the variety of approaches which teachers of differing taste and experience may use to involve pupils in music-making.
The information here is intended to help teach- ers develop their own framework, and to design and implement a curriculum that fits their particular circumstances.
The whole of this book is addressed to all teachers, and all other musicians working in school.
So all teachers will, eventually, want to think about the matters dealt with in Part II.
Where inclusion of a term which may be unfamiliar to some readers seems unavoidable, its first appearance is accompanied by a few words of explanation.
But a book that contains staff notation is impenetrable to those who cannot already read it fluently.
