Data in relation to lecturer demonstration videos have revealed complex relationships between the use of videos in an active and participatory way, the construction of deep understandings of core concepts and also in the support of a diversity of learning styles in particular those who regard themselves as visual learners.
The professional experience component of the degree that takes place in schools would be managed regardless of study mode according to the geographical location of the student.
Effective learning in this project refers to that which encourages deep learning as defined by Biggs (2003), and efficient learning refers to that which enables students to engage meaningfully with key concepts and processes of the unit regardless of their mode of study.
7).
Twigg (2001, p. 4) highlights a confusion of terminology stating that the terms distance learning, distance education, distributed learning and online learning are used more or less interchangeably (in Guri-Rosenblit, 2005, p. 468), see also Moore, Dickson-Deane, and Galyen (2010).
82).
This paper relates to the online mode of the music education component of the unit.
The unit presents students with opportunities to explore the dimensions of music (Wiggins, 2009), framed by a philosophy of music education as praxis (Elliott, 1995).
Learner agency and an active learner are therefore central tenets of this approach.
Procedure Data presented in this paper are drawn from the first of three annual surveys to be conducted over the length of the project, with each survey followed by semi-structured interviews with both academic colleagues and students.
Hatch (2002) writes that deciding exactly who the participants Paper Code: 00128 AARE 2011 Conference Proceedings 5 will be is determined in part by the context and unit of analysis selected for the study (p.
In this respect the perspectives of both students and academics were deemed to best inform the research question.
187).
Seventy one respondents (26%) completed the survey in its entirety; however the number of respondents varied slightly Paper Code: 00128 AARE 2011 Conference Proceedings 6 between questions with one respondent answering only one question, and another answering only four questions.
Following a brief discussion of quantitative survey data, the themes that emerged from written responses to questions four and five, relating to the use of video by students, shall be presented and discussed in more detail.
1 I did not use the videos of past students 2.8% 2 2 Not useful 5.6% 4 3 Somewhat useful 15.3% 11 4 Useful 12.5% 9 5 Very useful 25.0% 18 6 Extremely useful 38.9% 28 Total 100% 4.7 1.4 Question 6. How useful were the weekly learning plans and the other word based resources, Such as readings and handouts that were available in MyLO [the University Learning Management System (LMS)] to you in completing this unit?
As may be seen in Table 1 questions four, five and six elicited the highest mean scores being 4.8, 4.7 and 4.9 respectively, suggesting that students most valued the videos and resources provided in the LMS.
These plans were developed to provide students with a weekly structure for their learning.
As can be seen in Table 1, 65.3% or 47 out of the 72 respondents agreed that the instructor videos were either very useful or extremely useful.
Two respondents or 2.8% did not use the videos and one respondent or 1.4% did not find them useful.
The mean response for this question was 4.8 being at the top end of the useful range and 95.8% or 69 out of 72 respondents indicated that these learning resources were useful to differing degrees.
The analysis of these written responses to question four about the usefulness of the instructor videos has revealed four themes: those who only viewed the videos and took notes (a passive approach Paper Code: 00128 AARE 2011 Conference Proceedings 9 in terms of participatory Arts learning); those who used the videos actively by working along to them in some way (an active form of participatory Arts learning); those who valued the videos as a means to increase their depth of understanding; and, those who appreciated the visual that is inherent in videos, sometimes referring to themselves as visual learners.
Fifteen references were made to viewing videos and taking notes from them, including one respondent who wrote that I thought these were fantastic, I took lots of notes off [sic.] these, and watched them a number of times too.
This is an interesting comment as the respondent has linked the videos to their level of both engagement and understanding.
Two respondents or 2.8% did not use the videos and four respondents or 5.6% did not find them useful.
The mean response for this question was 4.7 being at the top end of useful range and 91.6% or 66 out of 72 respondents indicated that these videos were useful to differing degrees.
This comprehensive response makes clear the connectedness of the data in this part of this research, highlighting that students use of videos was often more complex than merely assisting with one area of learning such as their understanding of concepts and skills.
Eight references about using the videos to apply learning in a professional context were revealed in Paper Code: 00128 AARE 2011 Conference Proceedings 11 these data.
These data have indicated that further crossing of this boundary in both research and practice has much to contribute to understanding the synergies that are possible in this area.
Further research in these areas is ongoing and will continue to inform some of the themes over time; however, this paper has certainly highlighted the ways in which students have used online support measures such as videos to support their learning.
I have a voice but I just can't sing: A narrative investigation of singing and social anxiety.
Hoboken: Jossey-Bass.
Commonwealth of Australia.
Commonwealth of Australia.
Commonwealth of Australia.
(2005).
Cleveland-Innes, M., & Garrison, D. R. (Eds.).
British Journal of Music Education, 10, 33-46.
Green, R. (1995).
Research and Issues in Music Teacher Education, 5. http://www.stthomas.edu/rimeonline/vol5/hebert.htm.
Accessed 2 June 2011.
The National Review of Music in Schools and the endless debate about music in primary schools.
Challenging hierarchies: The impact of E-learning.
Moore, J. L., Dickson-Deane, C. & Galyen, K. E. (2010).
Students experiences and preferences in e-learning.
Rovai, A. P. (2004).
Social research.
Distance learning and the music teacher.
British Journal of Music Education, 8, 125-138.
