The result is a transforming experience for students and their teacher.
Contrary to common practice, lessons do not center on a lesson objective.
Furthermore, they were able to meet benchmarks for students in grades 58 as articulated in the National Standards for Arts Education.
To do this, we conceived a music program whereby philosophy, psychology or learning theory, and praxis would intersect in a Venn diagram to yield musical experiences for students at Westminster Academy and pre-service music education majors at the college.
The goal of Critical Pedagogy is to use that knowledge as a bridge to new learning.
Acknowledging that children come to the classroom with some prior knowledge gleaned from life experiences is an important concept.
In this model, students and their teachers view the world through the lens of the urban experience and the music that defines that experience.
For those teaching a CPME approach, music learning takes place when both the teachers and the students can acknowledge a change in perception.
There are issues of power and control inside the music classroom, inside the school building, and inside the community.
Just as Critical Pedagogy for Music Education is concerned with connecting to the students and their realities, a critical perspective allows teachers to view their role inside the context of their own realities.
Like their students, such realities include previous experiences, and their own conception of the political, cultural, and economic components of schooling.
The Critical Pedagogy for Music Education Framework Four essential questions, gleaned from Habermas (1982), guide the development of the music lessons in the CPME model are: Who am I?
They begin with an exposition that introduces the main themes of the lesson.
In this lesson model, the teachers role changes shifts from motivator to informer, to facilitator, and then to assessor (McCarthy, 1987).
Reading strategies used by teachers in general classrooms to help children meet standards of literacy are infused at appropriate points without compromising the integrity of the music lesson.
An assessment of the laboratory program was completed after the second year (Abrahams, 2004).
To address dispositions and teacher identity, students analyzed case studies where the stakeholders are presented with a moral dilemma inside a music education issue.
Students participated in an extended off-campus field experience and continued to develop their digital portfolios.
Students revised their first-year philosophy and developed it into a document of significance.
Contrary to common practice, lessons do not center on a lesson objective.
Instead, concepts, topics, and experiences emerge as students and their teachers construct their own meaning from the music itself.
The activities alternate right- and left-brain processing modes and a pattern of right, left, right, left, left, right, left, right.
Steps 1 and 2 are structured to answer the question Why?
and appeal to those students who learn by listening and sharing ideas.
They rely on their feelings and enjoy group work and discussion.
These students learn by thinking through ideas in more traditional classrooms.
There is a research base for each step (Apple, 1982; Bourdieu, 1986,1987a, 1987b; Darling-Hammond, 1997; Gardner, 1983, 2000; Habermas, 1982; Hooks, 1994; McNeil, 2000; Sarason, 1996; Shor, 1992).
Students gather the evidence they need to solve the problem.
Marzano: Cognitive System Level 1; Bloom: Level 1 Freire (1970); Saranson (1996); McNeill (2000) Who students may become Engaging musical intellect 5. Practicing the content: Teacher provides students with an opportunity to practice the content.
An assessment rubric may be applied at this step.
An assessment of the sixth grade classroom music program delivered by Westminster academy in residence at John Witherspoon middle school, Princeton, New Jersey: Rider University.
Boston: Routledge.
The forms of capital.
241-158).
New York: Continuum.
Boulder: Westview Press.
Pedagogy and the politics of hope.
Boulder: Westview Press.
Journal of Education, 170(3), 5-30.
New York: Routledge.
Lifeworld and system: A critique of functionalist reason.
New York: Routledge.
Marzano, R. (2000).
Thousand Oaks, CA: Corwin Press.
8 McCarthy, B. (1987).
Contradictions of school reform: Educational costs of standardized testing.
New York: Routledge.
(1994).
Type z organization: A better match for a mobile society: Stanford University, Graduate School of Business.
Shor, I. (1992).
