In addition to grade point averages and teacher-designed assessments, the following standardized tests have been used in this body of research: American College Test Basic Skills Assessment Program California Test of Basic Skills Comprehensive Tests of Basic Skills Cornell Critical Thinking Tests Florida Comprehensive Achievement Test Georgia High School Graduation Tests Iowa Tests of Basic Skills Kentucky Instructional Results Information System assessment scores Metropolitan Readiness Tests (New Jersey) Grade Eight Proficiency Assessment Scholastic Assessment Tests Stanford Achievement Test Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scale Texas Educational Assessment of Minimum Skills Tests of Achievement Proficiency Texas Assessment of Academic Skills Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills Torrance Tests of Creative Thinking Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children Academic Achievement 2.3 Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence Wide-Range Achievement Test-III Woodcock Johnson Tests of Achievement Standardized music assessments include; (Colwell) Music Achievement Tests (Gordon) Primary Measures of Music Audiation (Gordon) Intermediate Measures of Music Audiation (Gordon) Music Aptitude Profile (Seashore) Measures of Musical Talents Watkins-Farnum Performance Scale Subjects in these studies ranged from preschool through college students.
Palos-Tuley (2003) found positive significant effects for academic achievement and the degree of involvement in the fine arts of Hispanic students in grades three, four, and five, involved in either: an intensive fine arts academy, a rotational fine arts program, or a minimal fine arts program.
Two concerns are that the sample sizes were fairly small (n = 24 in each of first, second, and third grade classes) and levels of significance were not reported for the correlation coefficients.
She found that participation in instrumental music was not among the five independent variables that contributed most to the criterion variable (scores achieved on the ACT).
Academic Achievement 2.8 READING ACHIEVEMENT Reading is a key to successful academic achievement.
Yet, according to the most recent national assessment, only 32% of the nations fourth grade children are reading at or above grade level (NAEP, 2000).
An early intervention program to help students acquire better reading skills should enable them to perform better throughout their school years and beyond (Snow, Burns, & Griffin, 1998).
Indeed, for the most part, research has supported this notion.
Results confirmed the previous findings as those with musical training improved verbal memory (but not visual memory) more so than those who discontinued or never received such training.
Beginning in 2005, No Child Left Behind requires all states to measure students progress in mathematics annually in third- through eighth-grade.
Preschool Children Geoghegan and Mitchelmore (1996) investigated the effects of a music program on the mathematics achievement of preschool children.
Data indicated that students who had studied an instrument prior to fourth grade had higher scores in mathematics achievement than did students in the other groups.
Students who participated in the MST received piano lessons in addition to their regular classroom activities.
Most of the research literature involves integrated instruction involving more arts than just music.
Integrated Instruction and Mathematics The connection between music and mathematics extends as least as far back as the Pythagorean experiments in 6th century BC.
The music-integrated classes showed significant gains compared to the control groups.
(2004) examined the effects of background music and relaxation on the reading performance of third-grade students.
They perceived the music they liked as helpful, and music they did not like as distracting.
Dawson (2003) examined the effects of four different auditory background conditions on the reading achievement of seventh-grade students.
Effects on Mathematics Hallman and Price (1998) investigated the effect of background music on behavior and mathematics achievement of children with emotional and behavioral difficulties.
Almost completely neglected in the research literature is the impact of the individual teacher.
Perhaps we would do well to return to a position once taken by the Music Educators National Conference when it was noted that the ancillary effects of music instruction accrue to the student regardless of the motivation that initially led to the inclusion of music in the curriculum (The Role of Music in the Total Development of the Child, 1977, 59).
REFERENCES Adair-Hauser, A.J.
(1997).
(Doctoral dissertation, The University of North Carolina at Greensboro).
(Doctoral Dissertation, The University of Northern Colorado).
Dissertation Abstracts International, 62 (04), 1277A.
Bowles, S. A. M. (2003).
Journal of Aesthetic Education, 34(3- 4), 167-178.
(Doctoral dissertation, University of Central Florida).
(Doctoral dissertation, The University of North Carolina at Greensboro).
Dissertation Abstracts International, 49 (06), 1398A.
(1997).
National Society for Education in Art and Design, 51-60.
(Doctoral dissertation, The University of North Carolina at Greensboro).
Academic Achievement 2.29 Lamb, S. J., & Gregory, A. H. (1993).
Lowe, A.S.
Journal of Research in Music Education, 29 (2), 103-110.
(ERIC Document Reproduction Service No. ED332447) McTeer, J.H., & Bailey, R.T.
(Doctoral dissertation, University of Central Florida).
Music as an aid to learning.
Springfield, IL: Charles C. Thomas.
An analysis of second-grade students mathematics performance on the Stanford-9 Test and the Capistrano Unified School District CORE Level Test.
(ERIC Document Reproduction Service No. ED463076) Smith, B. A., & Davidson, C. W. (1991).
Smith, W.F.
Steele, K., Bass, K., & Crook, M. (1999).
The mystery of the Mozart Effect.
Tips for Beginners.
Mathematics Teacher, 84 (8), 631-632.
Music and mathematics: Modest support for the oft-claimed relationship.
The relationship of pop/rock music to childrens task performance and continuing motivation in language arts instruction.
http://www.ed.gov/programs/readingfirst/nclb-reading-first.html http://aplus-schools.uncg.edu/ http://www.ed.gov/nclb/methods/math/math.html 
