How this specialisation has come about is difficult to locate.
Introduction Two traditional features of primary schools invariably continue today: a commitment to basic skills (literacy and numeracy) and the one general classroom teacher.
Despite such a possibility there has yet to be a comprehensive debate regarding the role of subject specialists in primary schools.
It is helpful in understanding any shift in the practice from the one generalist to multiple subject specialists to take a brief look at the historical evidence of the Australian primary school teacher, which at best is fragmentary.
(Commission on primary, secondary, technical, and other branches of education, 1903, p. 42.
The final recommendation of the OFSTED (1997) survey advocated that schools need more teachers than classes if they are to manage their teaching effectively (p.
Similarly when reviewing studies which proposed differences in the quality of teaching or student outcomes when specialists were used, Hall found that the studies lacked empirical data either way, but were instead, opinion pieces (2000, section 6).
That is, it has exclusively focused on academic subjects mostly limited to mathematics and literacy.
Rowan and Miskel (1999) have made a tentative suggestion as to how these implicit views of subject epistemology intersect with multiple rules and institutional processes.
Rules are defined as the polices, curriculum and instructional guidelines that shape teachers work and implicit subject epistemology in a school curriculum can both shape and influence rules.
It remains to be seen in a climate such as NSW public education, where subject specialist allocation rules are not clearly articulated at the macro level, how decisions are being made at the micro level.
A first step in exploring potential new patterns of curriculum delivery and the rules guiding such patterns in NSW public primary schools, is to establish a clearer definition and purpose of the subject specialist teacher.
The term specialist was specifically described on the questionnaire in the following statement an RFF teacher or other DET teacher who teaches in one specific KLA or a Strand or activity of a KLA AND/OR an outside provider used by your school to teach in a specific KLA or a Strand or activity of a KLA.
Of those that reported to employ a specialist 71% used an RFF teacher, 28% used a DET teacher specifically to teach the one content area and 58% used an Outside Provider (see Table 1.) Table 1. Breakdown of type of specialists reportedly used in NSW public primary schools Type of specialist N % RRF teacher 224 71% DET teacher 87 28% Outside provider 182 58% Respondents were asked to complete an open response question regarding what subject/strand the RFF specialist teacher taught.
Respondents listed a total of 18 different categories.
Table 4. Subject/strands that are reported to use Outside Provider as the subject specialist Strand N % Gymnastics 68 37% Music 40 22% Dance 38 21% Physical Education 30 16% Sport 23 13% Band 17 9% Tennis 12 7% Visual Arts 9 5% Technology 8 4% Drama 7 4% PE/Sport specialists Because PDHPE has eight strands there is difficulty in defining the subject.
Discussion This study is the first to empirically document the current practice of using subject specialists to teach a wide range of content across the NSW public primary curriculum.
It is interesting to ponder, even in the face of apparent minimal empirical evidence of improved student performance when subject specialists teach (Hall, 2000), why NSW public primary school principals are using specialists.
To be sure there is the issue of perceived lack of teacher skills which corresponds to the concerns with the professional identity of specialist teachers (Abell, 1990; Duck, 1990; Fromyhr, 1995, citing Hing, 1993; Russel- Bowie, 1996).
It seems reasonable that if a school cannot afford the capital outlay for specialised equipment, a user pay type system in the form of OPs is put into operation.
Furthermore is it reasonable for schools to be compelled to teach content that is beyond their means?
As initial anecdotal evidence suggested this study found that there was a distinct pattern in the types of subjects specialists taught.
OPs were used to deliver KLAs that are perhaps considered the frills or enrichment subjects (Stodolsky, 1988).
The consistency in the reported patterns of use of subject specialists across schools would suggest that principals do indeed operate from a consistent set of rules.
Is it possible that subject specialists are used to teach subjects because their importance and status is lower, or as some of the data suggests, because some subjects are considered too difficult in terms of subject knowledge and physical resources?
It may also reflect wider sociocultural beliefs about the value of certain subjects, or historical constructions of primary school teaching.
A history of Australian education.
Melbourne: Oxford University Press Bassett, G.W., Jacka, B. & Logan, L. (Eds.).
(1982).
(2003).
519- 535.
Sydney: William Applegate Gullick, Government Printer.
Ready to teach?
Unpublished Masters Thesis, Queensland University of Technology.
Unpublished Masters Thesis, La Trobe University.
(2003).
Unpublished Masters Thesis, La Trobe University.
Review of Research in Education Vol.
(1999).
Institutional Theory and the Study of Educational Organizations.
Russell-Bowie, D. (1996).
How subjects matter in school leadership Conference paper presented at the American Educational Research Association, New Orleans.
Stodolsky, S.S.
Stodolsky, S.S.
A framework for subject matter comparisons in high schools.
Teaching and Teacher Education Vol 9(4), pp.
(Universities Council for the Education of Teachers, Occasional Papers, 10).
Retrieved June 1, 2006 from http://www.ucet.ac.uk/op10html.
Daily PE and specialist teachers of PE in Australian primary schools: rhetoric and actuality.
