These models comprise both ideals, such as equality and freedom of speech, and institutions, such as a government and educational system.
1997, 145--46).
Because the world culture, the nation-state system as its key founding principle, originates in Europe, all polities that wish to join world society copy the institutional structure of European nation-states.
Therefore, it is no wonder that the cultural institutions, forms of art and aesthetic 101 principles that prevailed in Europe during the past centuries, became international along with the globalization of the world culture.
The formation of nation-states means enacting the world models that the proponents of the world polity theory talk about.
Like during the Soviet regime, the Ministry ofCulture continued deciding on all grants awarded 102 to the performing arts and issuing guidelines for production.
Uzbekistan is a singular case, but it is easy to see that the overall configuration of institutional forms is the same throughout the globe.
Therefore, the political elite typically resort to the past, which is constructed to show the long history that the nation has as a community and as a culture with its own characteristic features.
From the outset, the nationalist movement was intertwined with a process that Finnish folklorist Pertti ].
The work attracted international attention and played a significant part in the rising popularity of nationalist senti ments, which culminated in the establishment ofFinnish independence in 1917 (Austerlitz 2000, 185; Wilson 1976).
For instance, among the cultural elite, Kalevala inspired a national romantic movement known as Karelianism, which was expressed, for example, in the paintings of Akseli Gallen-Kallela and in the music ofJean Sibelius.
104 The attempt to prove that the members of the nation are a culturally homogeneous group may not always be the best strategy.
This is why nationhood projects often emphasize diversity within the nation, rather than suppress it.
The nationhood project copied from the Soviet era included an emphasis on regional and ethnic differences at the outset.
On the contrary, the active policy ofmulticulturalism may be a means to prevent internal tensions and to channel them to harmless forms.
In the nationhood projects of such states one attempts to define the nation strictly on political grounds.
The United States ofAmerica and France are examples of this.
However, this does not mean that art does not have any role in constructing such a multiethnic nation.
Thus, broadcasting is regulated particularly by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), formed by the Communications Act of 1934 (McKenzie 2005).
For instance, in an Australian survey 94.8 percent of the respondents agreed or strongly agreed with the argument, The success ofAustralian [...] [artists] etc. gives people a sense of pride in Australian achieve ment (Throsby and Withers 1983).
Highbrow art is, in other words, considered an area, in which progress is made and new things achieved.
In this sense, art can be related ro sports, in which nations also compete with each other and citizens feel proud, if their compatriot wins.
To be successful in making inventions, according to this line of thought, it is thus in the interest of the state ro increase the innovativeness and creativity of the population.
As it is formulated by cultural economists, it is believed that art has innovative value: The practice of the arts makes an essential contribution ro the development of creative thinking in a society, to the improvements in the capacity for critical evaluation and to the creation of aesthetic standards that ultimately af fect most individuals positively (Frey 2003, 113).
When considered as an empirical argument, it is hard to prove that art indeed has such innovative value, Le.
that populations in those re gional states that spend more on art are more innovative.
Ac cording to it, cultural products that deserve ro be treated as art, should not repeat old forms or conventions, but should create something new.
Because high-quality art needs to go beyond previous art, its relationship to style is problematic, whereas inferior works are bad, because they imitate the existing art (Ibid., 131).
Yet, it is ofcourse interesting to ask why the citizens approve ofpublic art patronage as a form of public education.
Art is sacred within the distinction made between high and low culture, between art and popular (or mass) culture.
Defending the state subsidy ofart or public service broadcasting does not even seem to be dependent on whether the individual in question consumes high quality cultural products.
In my recent study (Alasuutari 2006b), based on qualitative interviews in which the informants were asked about their everyday media use and their views and opinions on media policy issues, the interviewees took a favorable view on the Finnish Broadcasting Company YLE, and its public service broadcasting policy, irrespective of their current viewing habits.
Popular support for public art expenditure can also be seen as some thing motivated by the individuals hopes of upward mobility.
Thus, upwardly mobile people admire and imitate highbrow taste and try to develop a taste for it.
In this sense, we could talk about a market regime.
Countries that used to subscribe strongly to the idea of high culture as a tool of popular education are now in a new situation: If the producers are to retain even partial control of the audio visual production markets, the people involved in cultural production have to make compromises.
Consequently, there seems to be a shift from elite centered arts policy toward consumer- and citizen-centered cultural policy (Alasuutari 2001).
Hayrynen 2006; McGuigan 2004; Pirnes 2008).
Similarly, in their study on the United States, Friedland and colleagues (Friedland et al.
1999), the Netherlands (van Eijck 2001) Spain (Lizardo 2005) and Finland (Alasuutari 2009).
k early as in the late 1950s, Erik Allardt and his colleagues showed that leisure activities have a cumulative nature: individuals with high participation in given leisure activity are more likely to be active in other activities than individuals with low participation (Allardt et al.
Similarly, Bonnie H. Erickson (1996) criticizes Bourdieu for treating high-status culture as generally valid cultural capital, and thus neglecting social networks and class relations at work.
According to her, particularly in the private sector, knowledge about and familiarity with many cultural products and phe nomena other than those ofhigh-status culture is useful.
In any case, it is clear that in contemporary world culture, governance works more through affect ing the citizens worldview, attitudes and taste than through coercion, and that is why art and culture will remain an important area of public policy and politics.
