What kinds of musical and artistic expertise are necessary for music teachers?
www.eas-music.org E ur op ea n P er sp ec tiv es o n M us ic E d uc at io n 2 EA S PU B LI CA TI O N S | V o lu m e 2 A rti st ry ISBN 978-3-85061-981-3 9 783850 619813 9 790502 028404 ISMN 979-0-50202-840-4 Adri de Vugt, Isolde Malmberg (eds.) European Perspectives on Music Education Artistry 2 EAS PUBLICATIONS | VOLUME 2 European Perspectives on Music Education 2 Artistry ed. by Adri de Vugt, Isolde Malmberg www.eas-music.org Cover: ArtScience, Royal Conservatoire (image); Marinas Werbegrafik, Innsbruck (basic design); Georg Toll (design & layout) Layout: Georg Toll, Innsbruck Printed by CPI Moravia Books First published 2013 HI-W7131 ISBN 978-3-85061-981-3 ISMN 979-0-50202-840-4 Helbling 2013, Innsbruck Esslingen Bern-Belp www.helbling.com This publication is in copyright.
Music Teachers Establishing Formative Assessment 151 III.
The conference offered a wide variety of perspectives on all of these themes, and it became evident that concepts of artistry and musicianship are far from unambigu- ous.
This does not mean, however, that it focusses on the issue of artistry alone; issues concern- ing craftsmanship and musicianship are also addressed.
So-called authen- tic education is part of this social constructivist approach; the dual applications of the word authenticity, both to the students own life (personally meaningful) and to the professional world (culturally meaningful), form the first two key components of authentic education.
Finally, Krmer suggests three teaching methods with which to implement these criteria in the music classroom alongside Arvo Prts Spiegel im Spiegel, John Cages Radio Music and Olivier Messiaens Quatour pour la fin du temps.
In her article Championing Creative Musicianship Pamela Burnard (UK) explores what it means to be enabled in/by creative musicianship.
She then distinguishes musical creativity from imitating/adopting.
copy- ing the known?
Besides this question, he wonders if music education should be part of mu- sic history or any cultural heritage and the extent to which young people should be aware of the phenomenon of culture.
The history and theory of music are linked to ever changing views on the role of music in society.
10 Adri de Vugt & Isolde Malmberg Peter Rbke shows the different aspects of performativity and provides then different ap- proaches of how to open up space for pupils manifold performative experiences in our present-day music classrooms.
The focus is, on the one hand, on what these children have learned specifically the kind of interactive skills that they developed, i.
e.
synchronising and entraining to each other and being able to consistently produce and coordinate rhythmic figures on a pulse and on the other hand, on how they have learned it, based on the model of cognitive apprenticeship.
In order 1 http://europa.eu/legislation_summaries/education_training_youth/lifelong_learning/c11090_en.htm [15.12.2012] 11 Introduction to be aware of and to be able to foster argumentation skills of learners he proposes a set of competencies, the set of music related argumentative competencies.
e.
A second topic he raises is the role of musical identity.
The question of what the kinds of musical ex- pertise we should expect from music teacher is related to the opinions we have on music and music education.
One might assume therefore that Music is included in their initial training and practice.
In this chapter the author examines some of the is- sues around this persistent problem, including questions about what we are trying to do in school based music education and perceptions of musical competence amongst general- ists and those that train them.
In his contribution Thomas de Baets (BE) pleads for an approach in which a music teachers artistry is defined within the context of the music educational practice.
He de- scribes this on the basis of research conducted into the ways in which music teachers apply their artistic-musical skills in relation to the musical learning processes of their students.
The author brings these two worlds together in a rather holistic approach to the artistic.
In chapter 14, rta Girdzijauskien (LT) criticises questions regarding the dicho- tomy between teacher and artist as overly simplistic.
The authors argue that the professional devel- opment programme facilitated change through addressing two critical aspects of practice: by developing a shared understanding of musical learning and by developing a shared pedagogy based on the contextualization of four key principles of the programme within musical learning.
One of the results of the large European project meNet has been the formulation of the Eu- ropeanwide meNet Learning Outcomes for music teacher training.
Because these learning outcomes had previously only related to the training of specialist music teachers, the EAS Learning Outcomes Platform a working group which emerged from meNet decided to extend them with another set of Learning Outcomes for the training of generalist teachers in music; the EAS Learning Outcomes.
We thank Hanneke Faber for finding the artistic cover photo.
The Hague / Vienna, February 2013 Adri de Vugt Isolde Malmberg 282 The Editors Adri de Vugt University of the Arts, Royal Conservatoire, The Hague The Netherlands After his training as a primary teacher, Adri de Vugt studied music education at the Royal Conservatoire of The Hague, NL.
From 19962004, she taught music education and French, led choirs at two Viennese secondary schools (Gymnasium) and worked as a mentor for trainee teachers.
He has published on ethnomusicology, music educa- tion, conservatoire education and higher education policies in general.
Her career has been woven from a combination of experi- ences as a musician, performer, educator, academic and researcher in Australia, USA and England from where she holds degrees in music performance, music education, and education.
He has been a board member and treasurer of the European Association for Music in Schools since 2009.
Folkert Haanstra Amsterdam School of the Arts The Netherlands Folkert Haanstra is professor of arts education at the Amsterdam School of the Arts.
He also holds the post of Special Chair for Cultural Education and Cultural Partici- pation at the University Utrecht, established in co-operation with Cultuurnetwerk Nederland.
Folkert is member of the editorial board of the journal Cultuur + Educatie and member of the board of the Aslan Music School in Amsterdam.
She was a music teacher in several types of schools, and a trainer in the fields of adult and teacher education.
She has also undertaken additional studies in the Kodaly approach and in Suzuki pedagogy and teaching.
Her research interests include topics in the social psychol- ogy of music and teacher training, performance, art and music creativity.
Franz Niermann Institute for Music Education, University for Music and Performing Arts, Vienna Austria Franz Niermann graduated from the University & Music Academy of Berlin in 1974 where he studied music education, history and educational science.
g.
He is currently the EAS National Coordinator for Germany.
Christian has experience as a teacher of mu- sic and philosophy in secondary schools, and was active as composer, pianist, and accompanist at several theatres.
Leo Samama Composer and musicologist, Voorburg The Netherlands Leo Samana studied musicology and composition.
g.
Andreas re- search theme is Childrens interactions in group creative music making.
Her PhD was about the development of art subjects in schools during the progressive educational movement in Austria.
