Given the many unpredictable and changeable issues arising in the music profession today, young professionals cannot be expected to have a ready made answer to everything.
In terms of learning processes, it would imply adapting them to individuals needs and reformulating the teacher/ learner relation as an active interaction promoted by support, counselling and guidance services to facilitate the creative use of knowledge.
Common elements of various listings of generic skills are: - basic/fundamental skills - such as literacy, using numbers, using technology; 2 - people-related skills - such as communication, interpersonal, teamwork, customer-service skills; - conceptual/thinking skills - such as collecting and organising information, problem-solving, planning and organising, learning-to-learn skills, thinking innovatively and creatively, systems thinking; - personal skills and attributes - such as being responsible, resourceful, flexible, able to manage own time, having self-esteem; - skills related to the business world - such as innovation skills, enterprise skills; - skills related to the community - such as civic or citizenship knowledge and skills.(http://www.ncver.edu.au/research/proj/nr2102b.pdf.) These skills cannot be acquired between the walls of the conservatoire only (in a formal learning context).
These non-formal and informal learning contexts are highly connected to experiential learning.
Formal, non-formal and informal learning has to do with the context in which learning takes place.
The learning results are explicit (the student can verbalize what he knows) and implicit (the student acts adequately in the situation she is in, without being able to explain why and how).
Bachelor) and 2nd cycle studies (Master) programs, which include major/minor components; 3 - is credential based and leads to a formal recognition; - requires specific entry competencies from students.
The learning process is, especially in the 1st cycle, primarily teacher-directed, and the instruction is given by qualified teachers or mentors.
Incidental learning and implicit knowledge (unintended learning results) are not formally recognized.
Reflection is a powerful means to learn from experience, to make explicit what is acquired implicit.
Young popular musicians largely teach themselves to play music, through processes of skill and knowledge acquisition that are both conscious and unconscious.
Musicians working in the field of classical music are constantly expanding their repertoire by choosing and practicing new pieces of music by themselves.
The learning results are skills and knowledge that are meant to be applicable in various life/professional contexts.
mastering the violin).
The kind of learning that is focused on is highly intentional.
The student knows what to learn and how to learn, and what will be assessed (and how).
The learning results that are assessed and formally recognized are of an explicit nature.
The context in which the student has to act and to learn is complex and requires not only knowing that (facts, skills) but also knowing how (how to apply them).
Reflection is a powerful means for operating successfully in these complex situations.
In non-formal learning contexts the teacher is not always a qualified teacher.
Learning from fellow students is an important aspect too.
Listening to each other, imitating others and asking questions are important learning tactics in such a context.
Assessment of learning is highly personal and mostly product related (fitting the purpose of learning within the specific context).
A problem can be the experienced relevance of that what is learned.
In non-formal learning contexts students learn how and when to use their musical skills and knowledge, adapted to the purposes of the particular context in which they work and learn.
Metacognition and generic skills are trained to adapt the present musical knowledge and skills to the context in which they are used.
In such a context the student is totally responsible for his learning and learning results.
Students learn to take responsibility, and take the lead in their professional development.
Institutions for the education of professional musicians have to make use of the various learning contexts for educating professional musicians.
Change of context makes that the student can master the various competencies that are necessary to engage in the music profession of today.
The connecting feature between learning in these various contexts is reflection.
It is not just an accumulation of skills and information, but a process of becoming.
In D. Colardyn (ed.), Lifelong learning: which ways forward?
Utrecht: Lemma.
In D. Colardyn (ed.), Lifelong learning: which ways forward?
Utrecht: Lemma.
In D. Colardyn (ed.), Lifelong learning: which ways forward?
Utrecht: Lemma.
Kors, N. (2005).
(2002).
Rehearsing and conducting.
In R. Parncutt & G.E.
Rogers, A. (2004).
In The Encyclopaedia of Informal Education.
(2004).
Lifelong Learning in Music: Research Approach.
In D. Colardyn (ed.), Lifelong learning: which ways forward?
Utrecht: Lemma.
