If the arts are not as available in the school day, where do they fit?
Where language, social status, The Arts and Afterschool Programs: A Research Synthesis National Partnership for Quality Afterschool Learning 2 academic achievement or other factors work against them in a traditional classroom, the hands-on, individualistic strategy of arts teaching provides another way to approach a problem; teaching artists become alternative models of success and facilitate the development of a self-concept based on each students individual talents (Americans for the Arts, 2004).
In The Arts and Afterschool Programs: A Research Synthesis National Partnership for Quality Afterschool Learning 7 setting questions about the arts in afterschool environments, similar research strategies emerge: descriptive and qualitative to capture a portrait of the afterschool environment; statistical comparisons of students and student academic outcomes.
Most of the studies included here are data driven utilizing qualitative, quantitative, and mixed method research strategies.
However, they were excluded because they did not meet the broader criteria described above, or because they did not address one or more of the questions set out for investigation in this paper.
The Arts and Afterschool Programs: A Research Synthesis National Partnership for Quality Afterschool Learning 9 4. What recommendations come from research and expert opinion as to what is important for the arts or teaching with or through the arts in afterschool?
RESEARCH ON THE VALUE AND RELATIONSHIP OF THE ARTS TO LEARNING The importance of the arts.
The first is the research presented by Champions of Change: The Impact of the Arts on Learning, a study conducted by the Arts Education Partnership in cooperation with the Presidents Committee on the Arts and Humanities, and funded by the GE fund and the John D. and Catherine T. MacArther Foundation (Fiske, 1999).
All of these studies found that learners could attain higher levels of achievement through their engagement with the arts, especially students from disadvantaged circumstances.
All benefited from involvement with adult models, such as artists, that offered them another way to see adult work and roles.
Arts activities had special value to English Language learners, low SES students, special education, and students who responded to different learning strategies.
Specific contributions of each of the arts: many of the studies looked at music and classroom drama with their predictable effects on literacy and math; fewer looked at dance and visual arts.
While there are likely many other studies that could have been included in this national compilation, Champions of Change and Critical Links laid the foundation for putting elements associated with the arts into discussions about learning, cognition, instructional strategies, and curriculum content and design.
Dennie Palmer Wolf (2003) in her longitudinal study of student outcomes related to programs of Dallas ArtsPartners, an arts and cultural education service for schools and afterschool, found that students working with ArtsPartners-enriched lesson cycles showed significant growth on the Reading Texas Learning Index--6 percentage points higher than those students who did not receive ArtsPartners enrichment.
African American students involved with ArtsPartners curriculum were an average of 16.09 points higher than their peers; Hispanic students 4.98 points higher.
The book tells two stories, one about the strategies the schools used to sustain their arts education programming; the other about the nature and effects of the arts programming and how it created new opportunities for teaching, learning and building community; in the end both came to be about the purpose of schooling as much as about the nature and effects of work with the arts in education.
Further, afterschool programs can vary greatly in their goals, resources, and offerings.
Effective programs strive to meet young peoples need to experience success and competence, as well as develop health relationships with adults and peers, and a rich variety of skills, positive attitudes and behavior (Miller, 2003b, 15).
They also offer regular professional development to staff across sites in arts education as well as other subjects.
In another review of afterschool programs, Fashola (2002) describes programs and practices that can make a positive difference to successful outcomes.
His summary includes program practices that focus on tutoring, language and reading skills, hands- on learning, community-based programs and partnerships, and enrichment strategies.
But as Miller and others suggest, effective outcomes for students require quality programs, in the arts or otherwise, that extend over a period of time, even years.
A strong causal relationship was found between learning to make music and spatial-temporal reasoning, for at-risk and general populations both.
Students who are high arts experience do better with academics than low- arts students; extended time for involvement is important.
Youngsters who are the beneficiaries of what we have called high-art experience tend to think they are good at reading, mathematics, and in school generally (Burton et al, 2000, 254).
This style of learning seems to benefit disadvantaged students in particular, but even for other students, shows greater learning outcomes than more passive strategies (Wolf, 2003; Miller, 2003a, 2003b; Huang et al, 2000; YouthARTS, 1998; Fashola, 2002).
Studies show that the involvement of artists as models of alternative approaches to adult life, and of collaborate working relationships with other adults in projects, mentoring, or apprenticeships, positively influences youths view of themselves and their capacities.
The arts are a fundamentally important part of culture, without them we live in an impoverished society.
Frequently children who are not successful in school, because of structures, routines or other The Arts and Afterschool Programs: A Research Synthesis National Partnership for Quality Afterschool Learning 34 reasons, are often successful in afterschool where there is a different environment for learning.
4. Have an informed acquaintance with exemplary works of art from a variety of cultures and historical periods 5. Be able to relate various types of arts knowledge and skills within and across arts disciplines, and apply to other disciplines as relevant (i.e.
Being happy 4 For National Art Standards and content standards see www.education- world.com/standards/national/arts/index.shtml or www.artsedge.kennedy- center.org/teach/standards.cfm The Arts and Afterschool Programs: A Research Synthesis National Partnership for Quality Afterschool Learning 36 makes me feel like I am made up of all different kinds of colors on the inside: student comment, Dallas ArtsPartners, (2003).
The issue of integration and integrated strategies emerges as a theme in much of the afterschool research.
Throughout history, all the arts have served to connect our imaginations with the deepest questions of human existence: Who am I?
* The arts are integral to every person's daily life.
In R. Deasy (Ed.).
The Arts and Afterschool Programs: A Research Synthesis National Partnership for Quality Afterschool Learning 45 Fashola, Olatlkunbo S. (2002).
Building Effective Afterschool Programs.
119.
Fiske, Ed.
Ingram, D. and K. R. Seashore (2003).
In R. Deasy (Ed.).
Gifts of the Muse: Reframing the Debate About the Benefits of the Arts.
Miller, Beth M. (2001).
In R. Deasy (Ed.).
No. 3, January/February.
In R. Deasy (Ed.).
In R. Deasy (Ed.).
Fiske, Ed.
Otterbourg, Susan D. (2000).
In R. Deasy (Ed.).
Washington, D. C. Seidel, Steve (1999).
Fiske, Ed.
In R. Deasy (Ed.).
Winner, Ellen & Lois Hetland (2000).
Fiske, Ed.
Arts and Cultural Learning: Changing Achievement and Expectation, Interim report of three-year longitudinal study.
