Early closure is expedient for pressure groups seeking converts to causes such as their particular view of sustainability before young people are distracted by the study of the serious exam subjects.
Between roughly the ages of 7 and 14, children are subject to the authority of the teacher, and this is also an aesthetic phase when feelings are more dominant than rational thought which begins to displace feeling from around the age of 12.
In 1975, when the Schools Council published its ground breaking Project Environment series, environmental education was hailed by some as the way forward in bringing about changes in public consciousness and understanding.
The inevitable result of such synthesis is a complexity and uncertainty that is far removed from the straightforward notion of education for the environment This argument has brought me into conflict with the philosophy of the New Educational Movements (NEMs) of the 1980s.
Optimistically and incoherently, however, the NEMs cling to belief that child thought nevertheless retains an innocent or uncorrupted world view (Kohlbergs intuitive justice [Kohlberg 1974]) from which adults might somehow learn about how to achieve environmental sustainability and world peace.
The collapse of this view under the weight of the centralist direction of New Labours national strategies and the seemingly associated rise of reactionary fundamentalism and youth disillusionment with orthodox politics requires explanation.
Much faith is invested in the class teacher as the authority who represents the world to the child.
At the very core of anthroposophy lies a deep rooted philosophy of freedom that seeks to liberate the human condition through the integration of science, art and religion.
It is to do with our ability to attain knowledge outside the bounds set artificially by an empiricism limited by an ultimate, unchangeable, objective and material reality (Nordwall 1980).
Martin Ashley Authority, Sustainability and Steiner - 5 - Anthroposophy underpins a pedagogy of education towards freedom that sees the teachers task in terms of facilitating childrens growth through a series of stages that posit the immature child as qualitatively different in various ways to the mature adult.
Crucially, a distinction is made between the dominance of willing (i.e.
an intense aesthetic sense) during the 7 14 years and thinking (i.e.
Several of the informants in our own study confirmed that the authority of the teacher is necessary to mediate the information that that would otherwise saturate children, desensitizing them and destroying meaning.
Deep challenges and questions are to be expected.
It does not, however, provide a balancing explanation for the hegemony of anthropocentrism that is at the root of global failure to Martin Ashley Authority, Sustainability and Steiner - 6 - achieve sustainability, and herein lies the difficulty.
The fundamental problem is that of how to justify right relationships and to encourage them in the young without recourse to alternative forms of indoctrination.
This consciousness is lost during adolescence, a fact which Hay attributes largely to the displacement of biological dispositions by cultural learning.
Gilligans feminist critique of Kohlbergs cognitive developmentalist approach to moral development completes a strong line-up against rationalist epistemologies of development (Gilligan, 1982).
The crucial point is that Steiners developmentalism differs fundamentally from the Piaget derived models.
The intense development of physical co-ordination during this stage is seen by Steiner as a unique and fundamental part of human development that has its proper and only possible place during the early years, when imitation is the principal form of learning.
The point of divergence is Gardners puzzlement at the disappearance of this from adult thought and Steiners conviction that, if allowed to grow and unfold properly during middle childhood, the aesthetic remains with the adult.
The same can be said of the intense spirituality described by Hay and Dillon.
The implications of this for sustainability are considerable, for if a childish delight in the wateriness of water (Bailey, 2000) remains in the adult psyche, it will presumably remain to counterbalance the rationalizations through which adults grow cynical and world weary.
Such a contentment would be part of the fundamental freedom from economic determinism that is required to challenge the hegemony of anthropocentrism.
It would be hard, for example, to reconcile Steiners pedagogy of imitation during the early years with the democracy of the Reggio Emilio approach.
Unfortunately, our own study was not able proceed this far, not least because of the extreme methodological difficulties of tracing an unbiased sample of former Steiner pupils.
Nature and Nurture in the Right Relationships with Nature: some parallels with religious indoctrination American Educational Research Association Annual Conference, 11th - 15th April 2005a, AERA.
ASHLEY, M., 2005b.
Tensions Between Indoctrination and the Development of Judgment: the case against early closure Environmental Education Research, 11(2), pp.
131-145.
19th October 2000, University of the West of England.
BONNETT, M., 1994.
New York: Harper Collins.
Fool's Gold: a critical look at computers in childhood.
London: Harper Collins.
GILLIGAN, C., 1982.
London: Routledge.
The Spirit of the Child.
London: Harper Collins.
London: Jessica Kingsley.
London: Routledge.
LOMBORG, B., 2004.
Fair Oaks, CA: Publications Committee, Association of Waldorf Schools of North America.
Earthcare: Women and the Environment.
London: Routledge.
Project Environment: education for the environment.
London: Longman.
Sustainable Development and Sustainable Development Education: an eco- feminist philosophical perspective on the importance of gender.
London: DfES.
