The Demonstration will involve participants in responding through musical co-ordination to a scaffolding of musical procedures that will allow creative and expressive leadership opportunities.
Thus the practices involved will conform to the attributes of a language that it permits both perceptive and productive properties.
Participants will be encouraged to respond to musical gestures and sung stimuli.
As confidence is gained, they will be given the opportunity to lead activities: Harmony Signing operates, as does any language, as much in active use (production) as it does in response (perception).
It is this that permits the development of creativity and self- expression.
Background to the development of Harmony Signing This workshop has grown out of a sequence of research and development projects (see Bibliography) devised over the last ten years to improve aural awareness and musical sensitivity through group participation.
As Harmony Signing has been taught and extended in a variety of educational contexts, it has become increasingly clear that its combination of gestural communication and vocal participation can render verbal description and analysis unnecessary.
That this should be so should not surprise us.
Music educators since Guido dArezzo have stressed the pedagogical value of physical representation and movement linked to vocal participation.
Chief amongst current trends are the inclusion of improvisation and composition in the music curriculum; and the use of computers and other digital equipment in both education and daily life.
In describing, for instance, tasks aimed at eliciting students engagement with creativity, it cannot provide meaningful impressions of the consequences and should not attempt to.
It is beyond the capacity of a planned curriculum to capture this level of unpredictability.
Its aims are file:///D|/REM/_REM/REMv9-1/bannan.html[28/12/2009 19:44:32] to bring a social, instinctive response to music back to the centre of classroom activity, and to do so in a way in which a sequence of stages can link simple initial participation that acts as a firm and effective foundation to ever more daring and complex musical processes.
As a consequence of this vacuum in the pedagogical literature, theoretical concepts have tended to fall back on the language of the instrumentalist tradition, without care to cultural appropriateness, relevance to musical style, or expressive potential.
Lest it seem as if I undervalue the music of the past, it needs stressing that Harmony Signing is able to open up its processes and structures in a fresh and engaging manner.
This is highly significant where students can find it hard to think outside unfavourable comparisons with music that is already recognised.
Children brought up with the redundancies and recursions of computer games and mobile phones find little confusion in the clear framework of experiences on which the pedagogy is based.
Yet relatively little pedagogical thinking has been applied to the nature of music-making in groups, least of all where members may be attempting to express new musical ideas at odds with those of their companions.
Harmony Signing sets out to provide a means by which students can take turns to express their ideas fully by employing the group to resonate with their musical intentions.
The gestural complement of group singing accesses musical processing in a manner that can give rise to uninterrupted musical concentration.
file:///D|/REM/_REM/REMv9-1/bannan.html[28/12/2009 19:44:32] How will this be achieved in the Demonstration?
Some time for re-entering the everyday world of language is reserved at the end to allow for questions and evaluation.
These procedures are ideally developed over time, a few minutes in each lesson, rather than in one enriched session.
Harmony Signing operates in many ways like a language, allowing musical syntax to be stored, retrieved and modified.
Like a language, it is best acquired gradually.
But in the time available, it is hoped that the following musical principles and procedures will be covered: Tonality: the primary triads A trio of gestures represents the Tonic, Subdominant and Dominant triads.
Voice-leading responses to the signing allow participants to locate a part in textures which embrace movement between the primary triads, thus establishing stable tonality.
Inversion The gesture for inverting chords is introduced, firstly on the Tonic and then on the other primary triads.
Polyphony This is initiated through employing Kodly hand signs in two parts.
The secondary triads Deriving the secondary triads from the primary is developed, extending the available harmonisation of each degree of the scale.
Harmony Signing can play a part in the teaching of composition and improvisation as well as aural development and music theory.
Bibliography Bannan, N. J. C. 2004.
In The Music practitioner: research for the music performer, teacher and listener, ed. J. Davidson.
Developing vocal skills in the secondary classroom.
London: The Open University/Routledge Falmer.
Bannan, N. J. C. A Gestural Language for the Representation and Communication of Vocal Harmony, Canadian Music Educator 41 (2000): 65-70.
(CDRom) Swanwick, K. Teaching Music Musically.
