Perhaps, because the value of music study is so intrinsic to our lives, we believe that the benefits, and especially the musical results, should speak for themselves.
This means a high level of professionalism in group and private instruction; regular, sequential, and curriculum-based classroom study under the direction of profession- ally trained music specialists; and committed individual music students.
These include suggestions about what music schools and departments can do: an annotated compendium of basic values, including the texts of numerous advertorials; a summary of the National Standards for Arts Education; a policy analysis checklist; and a list of other resources.
Each responsible person or group must decide what is to be done in its own situation.
8. What are some specific projects or programs that music schools either have or could undertake to address values development internally?
Reaching the Public 1. What are the primary issues that music executives and their faculties face when working (a) institutionally, (b) locally, (c) regionally, and (d) nationally with public perceptions of the values of music study?
For example, faculties, administrators, students who are future music professionals, other students, various segments of the public, the public as a whole?
For example, change, keep, or intensify the value they place on music study; change, maintain, or enlarge their perspectives; change, maintain, or increase their involvement with music study?
Not all messages or approaches are good in every circumstance.
For example, is the scope of the market we are considering for a particular project institutional, community, statewide, regional, or national?
To what extent does the relationship of message and delivery technique result in a package that reflects the various goals established in analysis, planning, and market development phases?
Usually the more work, the more fun.
Our strategies must be as varied as the people involved and reflect respect both for music as a discipline and for work as a means to individual fulfillment.
The second is to recognize that our success in promoting the study of music depends on our understanding these matters so thoroughly that we can influence how resources are used.
They seek both expertise and assurance that their own views are tenable.
To whom do these sectors of influence turn for expertise at the local, state, regional, and national levels?
How should basic messages about music study be tailored to reach these various sectors effectively?
Of the many plans proposed over the years to accomplish this; none have produced a fundamental change in the public's attitude.
This list has been annotated to show the three most commonly held positions for each ideaexpressed here as Position A, Position B, and Position C. Even if the reader does not agree with every characterization, a review should demonstrate that the music-teaching community needs the deepest thinking and the most careful structuring of its messages and actions if it is to move more people to value music in educational terms.
Music should be a relief from the rigors of other lessons.
Quality is purely a matter of personal taste.
These lessons are central to artistic thinking and have applications beyond the arts.
The organizations and individuals most directly affected by public perceptions of entertainment/education/music relationships are those whose life's work is tied closely to education in music.
A final question concerns the nature and content of messages that are used to advance the cause of music among education policymakers.
In their best and most reasonable manifestation, however, standards indicate what is important and what is expected.
Plan a meeting after all participants have spent time thinking about this issue individually.
4. Are these values explicitly communicated, or is an implicit understanding assumed?
Help students be aware of the resources available from a variety of sources: MENC, MTNA, NASM, CMS, National Coalition for Music Education, etc. Encourage students to participate in the musical life of the community through community service, teaching, performing, advocacy, and other endeavors.
3. Engaging Public Attention Prepare 5-, 10-, and 20-minute speeches or sets of talking points appropriate for delivery to parents, PTAs, civic organizations, school boards, and other potential audiences.
Consider ways to include presentation of the value of music study in websites, homepages, and other electronic venues.
Develop a local working group on the promotion of music study.
Music study increases the ability to perceive this musical beauty.
Beyond these basic elements are the subtleties that make music magicalnuances of phrasing, timbre, and ensemble that make music a living language.
The Basic Value of Music Study NASM December 1999 36 Conceptualization.
Learning to classify and generalize by identifying different types and styles of music, recognizing how different cultures use music for personal and cultural expression, and recognizing common elements in different musical works develops this essential aspect of abstract thought.
Commitment, Patience, and Perseverance.
Rigor.
Notes, like colors, words, and numbers, are symbols that make expression possible.
Music Study and Using Symbols.
The Basic Value of Music Study NASM December 1999 42 Music Study and Mental Development.
A high-quality program of music study lets talent shine forth, but, equally, it encourages intellectual and physical development, it nourishes cultural awareness, and it builds a deep and abiding love of arts and civilization.
The price, in other words, may be the loss of one of our most special pleasures.
Students work toward comprehensive competence from the very beginning, preparing in the lower grades for deeper and more rigorous work each succeeding year.
To make such substitutions demeans the arts and relegates them to frill status in educational settings.
The arts are no different.
Advocacy is centered on support mechanisms and fund-raising.
The Basic Value of Music Study NASM December 1999 47 5. Does it recognize and support the only existing delivery system that matches the educational task to reach all children and youth?
Those who work in public schools are supported by local education dollars, prepared and nurtured in higher education programs throughout the land, and joined together in large state and national organizations focused on the arts and teaching.
