The members of the committee were assembled BCMEA members with diverse expertise and who represent a variety of backgrounds that directly relate to music education in elementary schools.
Chair of the Music Education Department at the University of Victoria, Dr. Mary Kennedy, states, The University of Victoria used to have a very popular and highly regarded specialization in elementary music education.
Within the ensuing six years since Anderson and Tupmans research was published, this position has disappeared.
8 Further to these changes, the elimination of the compulsory Fine Arts 11 and the lack of required arts courses after Grade 9 demonstrate the lack of support for arts education.
According to the Synovate Study, Literacy is the main emphasis at all levels of school in the province, and in many jurisdictions assigned times for literacy and mathematics programs have been increased while time spent on music has declined.
To further exacerbate the problem, schools are ranked with these placements being displayed prominently in the local media.
In other words, if the emphasis is on the provincial exam courses needed to graduate, the others are less important politically.
Speak Out for Elementary Music Education The common thread through the literature review and the comment sections of the survey was consistent on the need for continued advocacy for music education at the elementary level.
Music is so important to students learning- it needs to stay current and enjoyable.
The degree of support in the survey comments for elementary music from administrators and superintendents, especially, was overwhelming: Ministry must create initiatives for all districts to specifically hire music specialists that are either at each school, or are itinerant within their district.
More time allocated to music specialists would improve the program.
It is my hope that teachers who are musically skilled and passionate educators will one day be considered a necessity and will be provided in the staffing allocation in every elementary schoolThere are many who are not in a position to have piano lessons, community choirs, etc. but have the desire to learn!
Orff educators emphasize creativity and improvisation, developing experiences for students through singing, movement, speech, drama, and instrumental ensembles.
The Kodly method is based on developing musical literacy through singing authentic folk music and a variety of other musical activities.
Such programs both within districts and also throughout the larger music educator community could be established.
Due to the limited elementary music training in post secondary institutions, many educators turn to the conference for supplemental training.
Our research concerned itself with undergraduate training in music education.
No elementary music-specific observations required - Collaborative Communities Module K-12: Arts are integrated with technology, theory and practice.
Fourteen (14) teachers indicated that there are two or more music teachers in the school, while few respondents indicated that they must teach at more than one school.
The second highest scenario shows music teachers who also have beginning band for Grade 6 as part of their teaching assignment.
This contrasts others representing 26 of 53 districts, who said that music delivery method was the same district wide.
Question 8: Please indicate type of music program(s) being delivered.
Some teachers are using ready-made published curriculum while others are creating programs that include the use of Boomwhackers (pitched tubes), hand bells and chimes, singing games, and other activities.
The concern is that schools that did not respond may not have music programs at all.
On the other hand, 20% were unsure of how many schools in their district provided elementary music programs.
at least one of their degrees) while 22% were trained outside of the province.
It is interesting to note the number of teachers who are already music specialists, that have supplemented their university training with Orff, Kodly and other courses.
6 Kodly and Orff societies each offer summer courses.
Question 1 indicated that this is only the reality for 57% of respondents.
They were in favour of music specialists helping to cover the prep time for teachers but would like to see maintaining appropriate student contact time in music class a priority for all policy makers at the provincial, district and school levels.
Finally, administrators would like to see more funding for opportunities at the district level for students to showcase their musical learning in instrumental and choral events.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/S0265051700001 44 McGill.
Bachelor of Education (Elementary) Program.
Surveys Three surveys were circulated: a teacher survey (Appendix B), a survey for administrators and one for superintendents (Appendix D).
Results show the regions of British Columbia that participated in this survey.
The culmination of this research produced six recommendations and conclusions.
#5 Not district wide, a few schools have specialists.
#5 Not district wide, a few schools have specialists.
More time allocated to music specialists would improve the program.
In order to train teachers who can deliver a quality music program, universities will need to look at what they are offering teachers in their courses and practicums.
However, the school needs to be equipped with musical instruments so that good instruction can continue throughout the grades.
I would like training days to be available for music teachers 81 Music not tied to teacher FTE, but instead a guarantee for equal music instruction, by a qualified music teacher, for each class of students.
Elementary schools do not have dedicated rooms and we have had to convert our Multi-Purpose room into the music room because we wanted to get serious about music.
This puts pressure on teachers sponsoring schools clubs that may have used that room in the past.
Administrators would also like to see all students have access to band and choir programs along with the opportunity, through district festivals and sharing days, to showcase their music.
A change in the current band/strings program all kids in certain grades attend to that teachers arent dealing with an extra 2 periods a week pull out of just some students.
We have music specialists deliver the core music program in our elementary schools.
This needs to be expanded to all grades where needed and if necessary via prep periods.
83 More qualified music specialists.
8. Other thoughts and responses It is problematic in the upper grades, although technology is a great way to engage learners in this curriculum.
