Toronto: Canadian Music Educators Association.
Choosing predominantly the other way may lead to disengagement and a music learning experience that, for the average student, will probably be a negative, de-motivating, psychologically damaging one, and in most cases lead to a cessation of music-making INTRODUCTION competition in one form or another is a pretty basic part of it We try to keep it down a little bit here by rotating part assignments but, there is a merit base in part assignment.
Social justice literature points to places where the system deprives a certain group of the opportunity to develop a natural potential.
We propose that, by attending to a particular side of the dilemmas we identify, music education could be reshaped into a positively motivating, transforming, and engaging experience for a much larger percentage of the population.
We found that our findings matched these models but extended the significant categories to include aspects perhaps specific to music learning.
Most recently we expanded this to include in-service and pre-service music specialists.
During 2000-2001 we focused our research on broader systemic issues and began in-depth interviews.
Interviews used video clips from popular movies as thought stimulators and memory joggers and focused on the following themes: (1) Value of excellence, (2) importance of virtuosity, (3) role of teacher as conductor, (4) perceptions of human motivation and ability, (5) concept of talent, (6) and role of music in culture.
We used qualitative theme analysis to examine data and identified factors in the perpetuation of the talent- oriented system.
Since 2001 we have also interviewed dancers and dance teachers, done initial work on theatre, and are currently beginning with gymnasts.
It is how music is viewed.
So even from the perspective of audience, the technique-expressivity binary is evident as the listener/viewer may attend to the syntax, the form, the compositional elements, and the traditional movement elements but may respond primarily to the expressive elements.
And yet, as a student you are always being bombarded with this idea that there is perfectionism thats absolutely required.
If it is a dilemma for students, it is equally a dilemma for teachers.
Because artistic excellence is associated with technical perfection and the rigor and discipline of its development, students may feel a need for the whip of technical discipline.
A students inability to achieve the desired perfection is most commonly attributed to a students lack of ability or lack of sustained effort.
This translates easily into a sense by students that the teacher is justified in being upset, that being upset is attributed to such a strong passion for the demands of the art, and that is it is the insufficiency of the student that is ultimately at fault.
I remember doing a lot of high school clinics, and a teacher would say oh Ive got a great group theyre playing really great, and Id go in there, and they could hardly blow their nose, they could barely put their instruments together, and you dont want to say anything to the high school instructor that youve been deceived or something like this you think, its nice that the instructor is so enthusiastic about his students and thinks so well of them.
Because, we say go to the Toronto Symphony and listen to the soloist.
In the British Canadian conservatory system, the curriculum is set out in grades with literature lists for each grade, controlled through required selection for the centrally administered examinations.
But like classical music they are really not the musical language of children and youth today.
The music teacher then focuses on teaching children to decode these notations and to replicate the composers intentions as perfectly as possible.
The alternative choice teachers could make is to make the manipulation of musical materials a primary activity of music lessons.
But when most adults and most teachers take control of childrens learning by formalizing learning, play with sound is reduced and the teaching toward replication begins.
He was not a mean man at all but he was very picky and inside of a couple of years I was so unsure about what to do that Id pick up the horn and Id almost freeze.
However, they counted themselves lucky in not having such teachers or in avoiding the teachers displeasure through conscientious work and commitment.
He could have taught any instrument and you wouldve just loved what you were doing.
He says you keep playing like that and youll be in the Philadelphia Orchestra someday.
I had [this new teacher]I spoke to her this morning on the phone actually lovely lady, and I liked it because she didnt push me.
If you are Im going to kick your butt and try to realize your potential.
It does push me to want to do betterbut it also makes me step back and look at it and think whether Do I really want to do this?
Well it is needed to drill you and needed to embarrass you somewhat but to an extent that they are telling you that you arent any good and you cant do it anymore and you should leavethat shouldnt be a part of it.there is nothing wrong with telling you you need to work harder at this.
Directing criticism as an attack on the person is rather simple mispedagogia.
One of the crucial factors in student engagement in music learning is expectation.
Another student expressed it like this: When I went back to her saying that I actually succeeded in playing it at a certain speed, she didn't believe me because I was unable to do it again, with her being in the room.
Data seemed to indicate that music teachers who find personal music-making opportunities appropriate for their own level (apart from teaching, perhaps in the community), have more understanding and patience for students.
So, all musicians face the choice of when and what to celebrate in students attempts and what things to criticize.
Getting any job is a competitionan audition or an interview is a fact of life.
The trying out for parts, the auditioning to get into the faculty of music some are accepted and some are rejected.
For many children this is a minor problem since they are not required to practice many hours, but it becomes an especially serious problem in the period heavily social oriented adolescence when serious musicians are expected to practice hours every day.
It is the very act of achievement that is the motivation and reward rather than an authentic love of music or the experience of the music itself.
And, this thrives in a culture where fascination is with the new child star or the new talent on the concert stage, and a culture where the very attendance of the concert may be of greater value than the experience of the music at the concert.
But, the cost is not only a personal one.
If the conditions of learning are predominantly those from the right hand column, the music learning experience for the average student will probably be a negative, de-motivating, psychologically damaging one, and in most cases lead to a cessation of music-making.
Todays systemic violence.
Conditions of Music Learning.
Engage or disengage: A study of lasting response to music teaching.
Engage or disengage: A study of lasting response to music teaching.
Systemic violence in education: Promise broken.
