After several months of collaboration, a survey was designed entitled Music Educator Survey: Reflections on Undergraduate Music Education.
This survey was distributed as a detachable insert in the Summer 2000 issues of the Orff Echo, Kodly Envoy, and the newsletters of the Gordon Institute for Music Learning (the Audea) and the Dalcroze Society of America.
Part C presented questions about the respondent's delivery of music instruction, perceived preparation to teach the National Standards, and the type of specialized pedagogical training (Orff Schulwerk, Kodly, Dalcroze, and Gordon) obtained after earning the undergraduate degree.
Part D was a series of open-ended questions, as follows: (a) Reflecting back on your undergraduate music education, what courses and/or experiences best prepared you for your post-graduate teaching assignment?
How did these experiences and courses prepare you for your duties?
Is it important for undergraduates to have coursework/training in these approaches/theories?
(d) What courses or experiences would you like to see current music education undergraduates undertake in order to be fully prepared to teach in today's public schools?
Their weakest?
These results were reported at the November 2000 President's Panel held during the AOSA National Conference in Rochester, New York, but the data presented at that time did not reflect the 14 surveys received after that conference.
Table 1 presents the respondents descriptive data expressed as percentages.
Of these, 21 taught both elementary and middle school, and 14 taught various combinations of levels and types of schools.
Over 97% of the respondents received their undergraduate education in the United States, and nearly two-thirds possessed a masters degree.
Of these alternative certifications, 1.69% had received certification on an emergency basis, where the certificate was issued prior to all of the certification requirements being met.
The remainder held either K12 Vocal/General certificates (11%) or K12 Instrumental certificates (6%).
(b) Music competence for every student with opportunities for accelerated music education for the gifted and talented.
A list of specific curricular areas related to the current National Standards for Music (Consortium of National Arts Education Associations, 1994) was provided: (a) singing, (b) playing instruments, (c) improvisation and composition, (d) reading and writing music, (e) listening, (f) interdisciplinary studies, and (g) relating music to history and culture.
For purposes of comparison, years of experience were grouped into three categories: 0.510 years, 1120 years, and 21+ years.
These data are summarized in Table 4. Part D: Open-Ended Questions Because of the open-ended nature of the questions in this section, some of the responses represented personal opinions that could not be objectively analyzed and categorized.
Courses were only included if they were specifically mentioned in the response.
Student-teaching and methods class were most frequently listed as the best courses for preparing the respondents to teach.
Because the respondents listed methods class as both a best and least useful course, responses were cross-tabulated with the years of experience categories.
Teachers with 1120 years of experience listed methods most often as their best course (44.44%, n = 36), followed by the least experienced teachers (40.30%) and those with 21 or more years of experience (28.09%).
Teachers with 21 or more years of experience listed methods most frequently as their least useful course (55.06%), followed by those with 1120 years (34.57%) and 0.510 years in the classroom (32.84%).
This finding is not surprising given that most of these teachers obtained their undergraduate degrees over 17 years ago, when these pedagogies were not as widely known as they are today.
Over 19% responded that undergraduates needed more field experience and less class work; 4.24% felt they needed more class work and less field experience.
These 93 respondents identified student-teacher strengths as follows: musicianship, 63%; pedagogy, 19%; and 4%, both pedagogy and musicianship.
Eighty-five percent suggested that student teachers receive more field experience in music education prior to the student-teaching experience.
Sixteen percent suggested that student teachers study methods with a professor/practitioner, a master teacher who still teaches music to children.
4. The majority did not experience undergraduate coursework in any of these pedagogies (Orff-Schulwerk, Kodly, Gordon Music Learning Theory, and Dalcroze Eurhythmics), but felt that undergraduates should now obtain at least one level of training in one of these pedagogies prior to graduation.
Summary of Student-Teacher Findings 1. Most student teachers possess adequate musicianship skills.
The response rate was low for such a widely distributed survey (N = 237).
This training and philosophy is also reflected in the high degree of agreement that undergraduate music educators should experience coursework in Orff-Schulwerk, Kodly, Dalcroze Eurhythmics, and Gordon Music Learning Theory.
There were also a high number of respondents who felt that undergraduates should graduate with at least one level of training in one of these pedagogies.
This result suggests that the majority of members in these organizations may not agree with the current requirement that teachers possess one or more years of classroom music experience as a prerequisite for this training.
The finding that less than half of the respondents felt prepared to teach singingone of the primary activities in elementary general musicsuggests that more emphasis is necessary in this area.
A majority of respondents with 21 or more years of experiencepresumably those who took undergraduate methods over 20 years agolisted methods as one of their least useful courses.
This percentage dropped among the teachers with the least years of experience.
While this can be cautiously interpreted to indicate that undergraduate methods classes may be becoming more practical for beginning teachers, the 32.84% least useful response rate among the teachers who presumably have taken their methods courses within the past 10 years suggests that as many as one in three undergraduates continue to begin their careers feeling unprepared by their methods classes.
The respondents were very clear in their suggestions for courses in the ideal music education curriculum and in their recommendations for increased fieldwork for student teachers.
It was also recognized at this discussion that influences or controlling bodies outside the teacher-preparation institutions (e.g., legislatures, state departments of education, NASM) play a large role in the development of teacher-preparation curricula, to the extent that the development of such ideal curricula are impeded by imposed requirements.
This will be presented at the 2001 National Conference of the AOSA President's Panel.
Table 1. Descriptive Statisticsl Table 2. Perceived Preparation to Teach Specific Curricular Areasl Table 3. Percent Feeling Prepared to Teach by Experience and Curricular Categoriesl Table 4. Percentage of Respondents Obtaining Training in Specialized Pedagogies after the Bachelor's Degree l Table 5. Courses That Best and Least Prepared Respondents for Teaching Musicl Table 6. Courses Suggested for an Ideal Curriculum for Undergraduate Music Educationl 
