Our study indicates that after spending time in the wilderness program at Mountain School, childrens perceptions of nature changed.
Listening to children: Perceptions of nature.
Based on a critical review of the research on learners and learning in environmental education, Rickenson et al.
Kahn offers a psychological account of how the world has become environmentally fragile as successive generations unknowingly experience an increasingly degraded environment.
First, what are childrens perceptions and experiences in nature?
Kellert (1996) established a typology of nine values that reflect a range of physical, emotional, and intellectual expressions of the biophilic tendency to associate with nature (p.
Our research extends Kellerts work by examining how first-hand experiences with nature contribute to childrens expression of environmental values.
We accompanied children into the field, and used observations and interviews to provide an intimate look at urban children experiencing nature in a pristine wilderness.
For the purposes of our research we define and view nature as a landscape or environment that is relatively unaffected by humankind (Wilson 1996).
The schools philosophy and curriculum are informed by research and practice in environmental literacy (Orr 1996, Elder 2003), natural history education (Fleischner and Weisberg 1992, Williams 2005), and environmental education (Pyle 1993, Nabhan and Trimble 1994, Sobel 2004).
Lessons address physical and life science topics that include biodiversity, aquatic ecology, glaciers, geology, cultural history, ethnobotany, wildlife, and forest ecology (NCI 2008).
The participants for this study were two classes of grade 5 students, ages 10-11 (n = 35), who took part in the Mountain School program in 2009.
The Journal of Natural History Education and Experience Burgess and Mayer-Smith www.jnhe.org Volume 5 (2011) 30 Data collection.
Interviews lasted 20 to 30 minutes and were audio taped for transcription so that we could focus on the nuance of childrens words and facial expressions (Wals 1994b).
In each of these writing activities the children were prompted to share their specific memories of Mountain School using descriptive language.
Transcripts from interviews and the samples of student work were read and reread and coded for the common themes that appeared.
I love plants and nature!
Within the Scientific-Ecological value category we developed three new themes to reflect children engaged with nature: observation (e.g., carefully observing animals and plants), systematic study (e.g., comparing and classifying organisms, predicting or inferring), and interconnection (e.g., making connections among living and nonliving components of an ecosystem).
Thus, we identified the theme beauty of nature to represent the aesthetic aspect in childrens responses and capture responses that focused on the physical appeal of nature.
This change was evident in both their interview responses and written work.
Children were comfortable and excited about sharing what they were learning: At the park Visitors Center I learned that black bears like moist forests.
Mother bears have two to three cubs in January and February in their den.
They peel bark from trees too.
(naturalistic, discovery; humanistic, emotional attachment to nature) (Carmen, Post-Program interview) Everythings green like the trees and everythings living like you and its not like technology, no robotics or anything, its all living!
I love plants and nature!
While negative feelings such as fear and aversion are part of our innate response to the natural world, they can serve as impediments to the development of biophilia.
For example, after a number of steep hikes children who were initially afraid of heights commented on how the North Cascade Mountains were steep but more accessible than previously imagined.
So, I wasnt used to it back then, and I was scared.
Trail leaders modeled, through their words and practices, a respectful relationship with all animals including large charismatic predators like bears.
Summary, Conclusions, and a Call for Further Research Investigating childrens perceptions of nature and participation in an environmental education program provides a look at the development of biophilia in children and offers insights on how connection and affiliation with the natural world may be cultivated and enhanced through a wilderness experience.
For these urban children, the mountains remain an alurring yet sometimes scary place to visit.
Our study indicates that after spending time in the wilderness program at Mountain School, childrens perceptions of nature changed.
Their words and actions indicated feelings of love, care, and respect for the green ecosystems of the forest and mountains, and its inhabitants.
And, I heard a tree frog.
Scholars in the environmental sciences and environmental education speculate that the study of natural systems may help us extend environmental ethics to the larger biotic community or land organism (Leopold 1949, Gould 1991, Pyle 2002, Orr 2004, Wilson 2006).
As we documented childrens enjoyment, happiness, joy, interest, anticipation, fear, and threat, we noticed that many children seemed to be particularly tuned in to nature.
Derr, V. 2002.
Elder, J.L.
Houghton Mifflin Company.
Kellert, editors.
Retrieved July 9, 2010 from http://www.k12.wa.us/CurriculumInstruct/default.a spx.
Payne, P. 1998.
Kellert, editors.
Qualitative case studies.
1994a.
Academic Book Center.
Naturalist.
3. When you are outside in nature, what do you like to do?
a. A lot some - never b.
15.
Do you have any questions for me?
