Cette tude analyse la faon dont les tudiants d'un programme de 1er cycle en formation des professeurs du primaire et de musique construisent leurs connaissances et leur pratique de l'enseignement.
Casual observation of the typical course of study of music education undergraduates and that of the elementary education undergraduates reveals very little in common between the two.
The Holmes Group (1986) and the Carnegie Task Force (1986), for example, have caUed for a more rigorous academic background for elementary teachers.
METHOD Because the nature of the study was to explore students constructions of teaching knowledge and practice in music education and elementary teacher education, we felt that an ethnographic study of the two groups of preservice students articulations was appropriate.
Concurrent with their methods class, this group also spent one hour a week in an elementary school teaching either grade K, 1,3,4, or 6. An additional hour outside of field experience and methods class was spent in a reflective teaching semi nar.
In Bernstein's con ceptual system for looking at education, he argues that the transmission of educational knowledge consists of an interdependence between its content and form as embodied in structures of social relationships (p.
In this sense, students try to form an identity that anchors their study, that gives direction to their thinking and acting in the institutional environment.
Singing and playing are the essential components and the signifieant me ans through whieh students view the musical experience.
234 MCGILLJOURNAL OF EDUCATION VOL 31 NO 3 FALL 1996 Campbell &- Burdell can look up to.
As Ramona explains, What is important is cre ating an environinent [that is] accepting and safe.
Much of the stu dents conversation repeatedly centers around, what Janet caUs, the nurturing of ideas, while at the same time being in touch and channeling drive and ambition.
What counts as profes sional knowledge for them is knowledge of individual student charac teristics and needs.
354).
Our analysis of how pedagogy is structured and functions for music education students suggests a view of pedagogy that is solution giving, in that initiation into, or learning, the art form requires the acquisi tion of states of knowledge, with curriculum progression moving sequentiaUy from a surface to deep structure of knowledge, exemplify ing increasing proficiency of skills that is dependent upon the master apprentice form.
Creativity is the most common term stu dents use to capture their constructions of what interpretation, expres sion, self-expression, or reflectivity means.
Most often these behaviors and understandings are caUed having an appreciation for and of music.
Our field analysis exploring practicum students constructions ofknowl edge and pedagogy clearly suggests that in their teaching practices and student-teacher relationships, music education students emphasize ways to fit students to music, that is, elementary students are assessed according to fixed points of reference based primarily on skill attain ment.
Beginning teachers who encounter the less-able remain very much at a loss as to what to do with them.
As Kleibard (1995) observes, the historical struggle between conflicting visions of practice (child-centered, efficient, traditional, progressive) has resulted in a loosely framed collection of practices.
Oebate over these competing visions of practice and instructional design continues and individual and departmental or school positioning within that debate tends to define notions of methods of teaching practice in locally specific ways.
Although no one pedagogic form dominates in schools of education, a focus on student growth and leaming structures teaching goals (Uston & Zeichner, 1991).
As Stober and Tyack (1980) point out, the pedagogical model that emerged in the elementary classroom was that of an age-graded self contained classroom, headed by an unmarried female teacher.
Some contemporary and controversial feminist studies of teach ers work, such as those by Noddings (1992) and Lyons (1983), suggest that caring appears frequently in discussions of teaching children (Acker, 1996).
The focus of these conversations can be said to encompass eve rything, that is, as Tracy, a fourth-grade elementary education practicum student, says, Doing work means, Vou know ...
This function is perceived as an integral part of their professional role.
A very real part of their pedagogy is to recruit special students and to develop special relationships with them.
The other is based on a dominant presence of nurtur- . ing behaviors and the development of student progress or growth in a whole range of various subject matters.
This dichotomy, however, is useful in describing a key differ ence which is significant for understanding how institutional forms and pedagogie practices contribute to the construction of professional iden tity or role as a teacher.
The task of teacher certification programs has been to impart pedagogic know how and to give students a background in child development and learning theory.
In elementary education, the locus of control does not revolve around subject matter specialization, rather it is situated in the relationship teachers construct with students.
For authentic disciplinary integration to occur, a radical transformation of both teacher education programs must take place, involving recentering the locus of control within and across both programs, and reconceptualizing both curricula.
Music teacher education has not, as of yet, seriously considered the implications of any integrated approach that is interdisciplinary or domain-specific, such as those suggested by Discipline Based Arts Education (DBAE) (see Smith, 1989).
In M. W. Apple (Ed.), Review ofresearch in education, 21.
Washington, DC: American Educational Research Association.
New York: Routledge Boardman, E. (1990).
Urbana: University of Illinois Press.
East Lansing, MI: Author.
Keene, J. A. (1982).
T oward reform in music teacher education.
Bulletin of the Council for Research in Music Education, 81, 10-17.
Zeichner, K. M. (1991).
Two perspectives: On self, relationships, and morality.
In C. Cazden (Ed.), ReWw of research in education, 16 (pp.
Urbana: University of Illinois Press.
New York: Carnegie Corporation of New York.
MARK ROBIN CAMPBELL, whose studies were done at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, is Assistant Professor of Music at the Crane School of Music at the State University of New York at Potsdam, New York.
Her research interests are sociology of curriculum, curriculum theory, and women's issues in education.
REVUE DES SCIENCES DE LtDUCATION DE MCCiILL VOL 31 NO 3 AUTOMNE 1996 24S Ciara WheLan 246 MCGILLJOURNAL OF EDUCATION VOL 31 NO 3 FALL 1996 
