For the first two hours of each day a class teacher, who ideally remains with the same group of children for eight years, teaches a two hour main lesson.
Introduction: The question of whether one teacher can know enough to teach all the subjects to Y6 (and, indeed Y5) was raised by Y4 and Y6 pupils interviewed for a previous study (Ashley & Lee, 2003) in which pupils in eight primary schools were interviewed about their responses to video extracts of male and female teachers at work.
Its failure to have a similar impact in bringing about a significant shift towards the subject specialist teaching it called for forms the substance of the present, ongoing enquiry into KS2 pedagogy which has received a significant boost through the DfES funded study Steiner Schools in England (Woods et al., 2005).
Misconceptions are widespread.
- 3- or that there is no set curriculum, or that the curriculum is entirely art based and unsuited to the more academic child.
During the first phase, up to the second dentition at around seven years, willing is dominant, which means that children learn mostly by imitation and physical activity.
For subject lessons, children of Key Stage 2 age will meet on a daily basis a range of different teachers.
For Key Stage 2, this would mean that a class Martin Ashley Can One Teacher Know Enough?
They gave their own answer through stating that they believe that it does (ibid, p25) and then proposed a tripartite model of required knowledge: subject knowledge how pupils learn how to manage learning (ibid, p18).
These are the low status subjects, untested and unreported in league tables, in which teachers subject knowledge apparently does not particularly matter.
In 1984, however, such subjects did matter, for HMIs concern then was with the broad and balanced curriculum and the inability of the primary teaching force to deliver it.
The culmination of this concern came in 1997 when Circular 10/97 specified that new primary teachers should for any specialist subject(s) have a secure knowledge of the subject to at least a standard approximating to GCE Advanced level in those aspects of the subject taught at KS1 and KS2 (DfEE, 1997).
Attention is then cleverly diverted from a benchmark for this by focusing primarily on expertise in the leadership and management of a subject.
The associations representing these schools confidently assert that the availability of specialist teaching is a key reason for the superior academic performance of their 7 13 year olds (IAPS, 2005) a claim also made by independent school heads interviewed by the author in connection with this current work.
However, the model calls for a level of understanding of educational contexts and ends that are generic to the understanding of education as a process across age phases and beyond formal schooling.
Turner-Bissets model of expertise is a way of revisiting the agonised debates of the years that spawned the BEd degree when, as Alexander (1984) records, there was much tension between a DES view that only subject knowledge mattered, a Hirst/Young/Bruner inspired establishment view of undergraduate study of education as philosophy, sociology, psychology, history and politics in the context of schooling, and a more cynical professional view that college theory was of no value to young teachers struggling to control their first class.
The survey was administered through personal visits by members of the research team to as many schools as were willing to accommodate this.
First, it was desired to achieve the fullest possible response rate from the 23 schools and it was felt that personal visits would overcome suspicion of or indifference to the project by the schools a principle that was fully vindicated in practice.
For the second, the researcher reflected on the notes and generated a series of questions that were put during the following day to the teachers that had been observed.
The teachers were encouraged, in these interviews, to theorize with the researcher on their practice, relating it to the underpinning anthroposophical principles.
- 8- iterative, that is to say that teachers in schools visited later on in the project were invited to comment further on the theorizing that had taken place in previous schools.
2005) that some compromise between description and analysis has had to be forged.
Case Study One Steiner Class: 4 National Curriculum Year: 5 Age of Pupils: 9 - 10 The day began with friendly, informal chats to the class teacher as pupils arrived in class over a half hour period.
She later insisted that the same pupil should be escorted to the class teacher, but when the pupil refused to move she simply carried on with the lesson.
Whilst some sang more enthusiastically than others, all participated and no gender difference was noted.
The first lesson of the afternoon was drawing, and this was taught by an experienced teacher who had been at the school a long time.
All eurythmy teachers are specialists with specific Steiner training.
The French teacher had good subject knowledge.
She employed pedagogical techniques recognizably similar to those observed in other Steiner MFL lessons, so was not lacking in pedagogical knowledge.
There is a difficult question with regard to the quality of pupils learning however that the research was not fully able to answer by virtue of the fact that Steiner education is self-referencing and lacks the benchmarks of external tests set by subject experts.
2 Steiner pedagogy stresses the need for teachers to bring material directly to children without the impediment of a book.
Most Steiner teachers are highly skilled story tellers and oracy is important.
In terms of subject knowledge, it needs to be appreciated that the teacher and class had spent a residential week on a biodynamic farm3, both teacher and children learning from the expertise of the farmer.
Seven of these were KS2 classes, and eight were KS3.
The table below presents an analysis of the observations undertaken, using the concept of pedagogical flow to capture this process.
The three columns headed unsatisfactory show the number of lessons adversely affected by the same criteria to a degree that would be considered unsatisfactory by OFSTED.
Pedagogical Flow Analysis Key Stage Two Clear Minor Unsatisfactory SK KTP KL SK KTP KL Main Lesson CT 72% 14% 14% 0% 0% 0 0 Subject by CT 44% 0% 0% 33% 0% 0 0 Subject by ST 50% 0% 0% 0% 0% 38% 38% Key Stage Three Clear Minor Unsatisfactory SK KTP KL SK KTP KL Main Lesson CT 20% 40% 20% 0 0 17% 20% Subject by CT 66% 0 33% 0 0 17% 20% Subject by ST 83% 0 17% 0 0 0 0 The most relevant figures are those in bold.
72% of lessons had no interruption to pedagogical flow and the teachers clearly possessed a great deal of knowledge of their learners.
Knowledge of learners was, in fact the, weakest element in these lessons.
Contrary to the authors expectations and prejudices at the outset of the study, this might count against the notion of 9 13 as a distinct phase and weaken the case for maintained middle schools.
In almost all cases observed, the Steiner practice of a class teacher for eight years appeared to be vindicated by the criterion of effective teaching and learning achieved through particularly strong relationships.
The challenge therefore, is one that applies equally to school management and teacher supply.
Towards Dialogic Teaching: rethinking classroom talk (Second Edition, Revised and Extended), pp 45, York: Dialogos.
ASHLEY, M..
BERNSTEIN, B., 1971.
London: TTA.
London: TTA.
London: TTA.
London: TTA.
Steiner Schools in England.
