This simple question raises several profound problems.
The main purpose of this chapter is to provide a comprehensive introduction to and interpretation of this concept, along with comments about predominant contemporary interpretations.
For the sake of discussion, these three aspects together represent an ideal type that will be called the common interpretation of the zone of proximal development.
333).
Sometimes this aspect is interpreted to mean that teaching in the zone of proximal development should result in the easiest or most effortless form of learning for the child (e.g., a student's zone of proximal development is the range of book readability levels that will challenge a student without causing frustration or loss of motivation 1998 abstract in ERIC database).
The use of the term development is not coincidental.
329-331 for a summary; 1935d, 1982b), concluding that there is a unity but not an identity between learning and inner developmental processes (Vygotsky, 1982d, p. 123).
Chaiklin Zone of Proximal Development 4 Assistance assumption.
Because a competent teacher is important for learning, the zone of proximal development notion is often used to focus on the importance of more competent assistance.
More important, in his view, is to explain why this happens.
One could read most of the material listed in Figure 1 in a few hours, especially because several of the texts have considerable overlap in their contents.
As a first step, however, we should make sure to have a reasonable understanding of how the theoretical analysis is constructed and what it is trying to achieve.
Second, the model should consider the whole child, as an integral person.
For example, two- year-old children tend to be directed more by reactions to what they can immediately perceive than by their willful formation of an imagined possibility (i.e., a thought).
Vygotsky proposed to describe the development of children, from infancy to adolescence, as a series of relatively long stable periods (one to four years), punctuated by shorter periods of crisis (see Mahn, this volume, for a comprehensive account of Vygotskys model of age periods; also Davydov, 1988, pp.
However, the functions needed for a transition to a new age period (i.e., a structural change in the organization of functions) are formed and elaborated (in relation to the central new-formation) in those situations in which the child engages specifically in actions relevant to this contradiction.
15-16).
One can say that the zone for a given age period is normative, in that it reflects the institutionalized demands and expectations that developed historically in a particular societal tradition of practice.
In this respect, the zone of proximal development is both a theoretical and an empirical discovery.
In this view, it is not acceptable to have only (correlated) indicators or symptoms of psychological development; one must use a theoretical understanding of the processes by which a person develops.
It is well established that the child can imitate only what lies within the zone of his intellectual potential (Vygotsky, 1934/1987, p. 209).
We see here that Vygotsky used the term imitation to refer to situations in which a child is able to engage in interaction with more competent others around specific tasks that the child would otherwise not be able to perform alone, because of the presence of maturing psychological functions.
[T]he child can enter into imitation through intellectual actions more or less far beyond what he is capable of in independent mental and purposeful actions or intellectual operations (1934/1998b, p. 201).
On the other hand, if I do not know higher mathematics, a demonstration of the resolution of a differential equation will not move my own thought in that direction by a single step.
Rather it appears that this term is being used to refer to any situation in which a child is being offered some interaction with another person in relation to a problem to be solved.
In one article, which as far as I know is neither translated nor readily available, Vygotsky (1935a) describes a set of experiments in which children are tested and identified to have a high or low IQ as well as a large or small zone (as determined by the kind of procedure described in the previous paragraph).
That is, children with a larger zone of proximal development (i.e., more maturing functions are currently available) had comparable intellectual development, regardless of IQ.
Does this work require revision and elaboration of Vygotskys rather undifferentiated notion of collaboration?
338-339).
the zone is never located solely in the child, not even the subjective zone.
This has yielded a diversity of interpretations and variations, which is likely to continue in the coming decades, given the somewhat underspecified nature of the original formulation and the variety of practical situations in which the idea is being used.
It seems more appropriate to use the term zone of proximal development to refer to the phenomenon that Vygotsky was writing about, and find other terms (e.g., assisted instruction, scaffolding) to refer to practices like teaching a specific subject- matter concept, skill, and so forth.
Boston: Allyn & Bacon.
In D. Hicks (Ed.), Discourse, learning, and schooling (pp.
Elkonin, D. B. (1999).
Boston: Allyn & Bacon.
Sociocultural theory and second language acquisition.
Dialogical sequence analysis and the zone of proximal development as conceptual enhancements to the assimilation model: The case of Jan revisited.
In Lo sviluppo psichico del bambino (pp.
In Lo sviluppo psichico del bambino (pp.
K voprosy o dinamike umstvennogo razvitie normalnogo i nenormalnogo rebenka.
Unpublished stenographic transcript of lecture at the Bubnov Pedagogical Institute, Moscow.
Moscow/Leningrad: Gosudarstvennoie Uchebno-pedagogicheskoie Izdatelstvo.
Moscow/Leningrad: Gosudarstvennoie Uchebno-pedagogicheskoie Izdatelstvo.
Moscow/Leningrad: Gosudarstvennoie Uchebno-pedagogicheskoie Izdatelstvo.
Moscow/Leningrad: Gosudarstvennoie Uchebno-pedagogicheskoie Izdatelstvo.
Moscow/Leningrad: Gosudarstvennoie Uchebno-pedagogicheskoie Izdatelstvo.
Chaiklin Zone of Proximal Development 19 Vygotsky, L. S. (1956).Obuchenijia i umstvennoe razvitie v shkolnom vozraste.
Thought and language (E.
Vygotsky, L. S. (1967).
Haus, Trans.).
39- 285).
The problem of age (M.
Kln: Pahl-Rugenstein Verlag.
Kln: Pahl-Rugenstein Verlag.
Kln: Pahl-Rugenstein Verlag.
