However, many criticisms have still to be answered.
But from our observations we have noticed a number of worrying traits about the uses of these technologies as educational tools.
Firstly, technologies are often only used by teachers and pupils as presentational tools.
For example, pupils may be taught to use a piece of software designed to produce professional quality musical scores (e.g.
Our interests lie in addressing uses of technology that are intrinsic to the act of making music.
In some respects there is nothing amiss about this preoccupation.
There has been a complete failure to understand the strengths of the technology available in the classroom for other more creative musical applications.
Our research has broken new ground by exploring digital technologies in the classroom within the electroacoustic tradition of composition.
We have sought to develop and apply these models of compositional practice within our teaching.
As we hope to demonstrate, pupils have made a range of innovative and exciting performance and installation outcomes, as well as learnt a variety of new strategies and methods for compositional practice.
A number of examples can be given.
The basic dials on the front of the sound processor facilitated an immediate and direct exploration of the various effect parameters.
The simplicity of this software allowed them access to real time transformation of digital samples in an amazing way.
Many pupils have strange ideas of what a composer is and what it is they do.
Typically, compositional tasks were open- ended and allowed an extremely wide range of creative responses.
Pupils are very interested to find out how they work.
Although it is presented in a linear format, the loop back from the evaluation component to previous stages is very important, turning a linear into a compound process.
This diagram formed part of a wall display that pupils referred to regularly as part of their work.
It represented a series of handles for them, providing a sense of progression and security within the compositional process.
Compositional Metaphors How can teachers encourage their pupils to create and manipulate sounds in interesting ways?
One successful way that we utilised was through the idea of compositional metaphors (see Appendix 1), based on work done by Dr Waters and his Keywords: a toolbox of productive metaphors (Waters 1994, pp.73-97).
The chart displays compositional metaphors, illustrated with the elements of music, under the overarching question, How can I put sounds together?
As pupils accumulated a variety of compositional tools from this selection (and often they invented new ideas of their own which we added to it!), so their means of expression increased, as well as there being an expanded repertoire of ideas for structuring and sequencing sounds.
But the ability to make links across the arts through common digital processes is one way in which our research has broken out of this straightjacket imposed by the National Curriculum.
Take the Acoustic Ecology movement as one example: There is a great need for more soundscape-orientated activity and awareness within the music education sector.
These projects represented an attempt to implement technological and pedagogical strategies that enabled our young people not only to have the opportunity to become soundscape researchers, but [also] soundscape designers (ibid.
Acoustic ecological approaches within classroom composition bridges the gap between the demands of the formal curriculum and the personal values and experiences that pupils bring with them to the classroom.
As educators within the formal context, the ball is most firmly in our court.
Where Next?
It outlines a four-fold model of creativity, the first stage being: thinking or behaving imaginatively.
These experiences link people with the materials of a field in such a way that strengthens interest and increases understanding.
Crystallising experiences can only occur, she suggests, if the right opportunities are presented (p.16).
This research has placed the creative ideas and experiences of young people at the heart of a creative process.
Used in an appropriate way, they have empowered them with the skills needed to express and communicate feelings about themselves and others.
As teachers, we hope that for some young people this has been a crystallising experience.
Whilst we would question NACCCEs assumption regarding the centrality of an objective in the creative process, the quality and definition of clear starting points in these projects had a critical effect in relation to how pupils structured and valued their work.
Burnard suggests that a pupils willingness to compose is facilitated by creating an environment within which they can express their creativity.
In these projects, digital technologies have facilitated this creative and critical process thereby providing an opportunity for increased musical learning.
Teachers should, therefore, try not to impose their values but rather encourage the children to discuss and develop their own.
Developing this creative approach is an ongoing challenge and one that relies on a consideration of a number of pedagogical issues: Teachers need to choose a context of relevance to young peoples lives, select an interesting challenge and ensure that pupils have the necessary artistic skills.
To conclude, we challenge any of you who work within the field of electroacoustic music and would like to develop educational dimensions in their work to take the plunge into the murky world of music education.
SWANWICK, K. & LAWSON, D. (1999) Authentic music and its effect on the attitudes and musical development of secondary school students, Music Education Research, 1(1), pp.47-60.
