Coffman suggests that field-based studies are needed to assess effective instructional strategies.
Conscious decision making regarding teaching methods, and learner meta-cognition, which are influenced by the musical, educational and cultural backgrounds of the participants, are also of key interest to this study.
In order to refine these questions, I investigate three main areas: motivations; teaching and learning techniques; and cultural backgrounds and philosophies.
b) What motivations govern the decision by Australian adults to learn traditional West-African music in a community setting?
7 There are clearly substantive differences in the values and meanings various cultures place in music making.
This latter approach reflects traditional methods of transmission and suggests that learning and positive student attitudes result from students active participation in music-making, a finding which is agreed upon by many researchers (Edwards, 1998; Kwami, 2005; New, 1983; M. Nzewi, 2003).
169).
162).
As Campbell (1991) notes, for a son to hear his fathers drumming constantly as the boy matures is undoubtedly a strong environmental influence on him (p.163).
Training to become a professional drummer has been very intensive in the past.
The evaluations of instructional approaches in community and ensemble music are growing in the literature (Anku, 1998; Burns, 2001; Klopper, 2005; Locke, 2004; Schippers, 2000, 2005; Solis, 2004a, 2004b Trimillos, 2004).
Anku (1998) works as a teacher of African drum and dance ensembles in America, and similarly displays an awareness of his own teaching methodologies: I am aware of the importance of my knowledge of the structural elements of the music I am teaching to my students, as well as the cultural rules of procedure that guide music-making.
Observing and identifying these strategies and methods in a non-formal setting will inevitably contribute towards future methods for formal education that is increasingly looking towards new avenues for effective teaching of different music styles.
Multi-Case Study The holistic analysis of an individual unit such as a child, a school or a community, may be defined as a case study (Cohen & Manion, 1994).
It took place at a recreation centre located in bushland near an isolated beach on the outskirts of Newcastle.
Access was relatively straightforward, as the planned lesson was being given to my own class at university.
Despite personally knowing Afotey, the teacher, I discussed procedures regarding the filming of the lesson and content of my study with him prior to the class.
Using a video camera allowed me to record interactions and specific teaching and learning episodes whilst still fully participating in them.
Interestingly it was also observed that within the culture of the drumming community there existed an openness to frequent discussions about music, teaching and learning, so that self-selection for discussion was a representative activity.
Data Analysis Data analysis is an ongoing aspect of ethnography which should occur during and after fieldwork, and is cyclical in nature.
The answer, apparently, lies in the purchase of a djembe.
For Dave, notation is seen as a learning strategy to achieve long-term objectives of memorization and practice.
I thought it will be easier for the students here.
That makes it a bit harder but its challenging, and its helped me learn a lot.
He does occasionally and I think thats just a result of so many white people saying How many slaps are there?
Whereas he has heard it and knows it so well that it would be difficult for him to analyse everything on the spot for every student.
So sometimes I get confused by the Western beat.
A general consensus regarding the adaptations which are taking place appears to be developing in the affinity group.
Indeed, students often asked questions themselves in order to break down rhythm, and direct their own learning.
Student questions have the ability to confuse teachers who do not think in that manner, and lead to misconceptions regarding who has greater knowledge or understanding.
But the way we teach our students is(laughs) Kirsty: (laughs) A platter; we put it on a platter for them!
Without mention of this knowledge, Gary reflected on the link between speech and rhythmic expression.
. . . Its good that [Madou] lets everybody do it at once, but I think itd be better if he actually drills everyone individually.
Laura: Is that so if you get a chance to do it individually you get a chance to hear yourself?
Zana: I was asking people next to me when I forgot the rhythm.
The motivations of participants in the learning environment are of key importance when examining the pedagogy used.
Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Dunbar-Hall, P. (2006).
Australian Association of Research in Music Education (Proceedings of the XXVIth Annual Conference 25-28 September 2004), 144-150.
In T. Solis (Ed.), Performing Ethnomusicology: Teaching and Representation in World Music Ensembles.
168-188).
Traditional and modern methods of learning and teaching music in Bulgaria.
Dual discourse in Arab music pedagogy: Interview with Ali Jihad Racy.
In T. Solis (Ed.), Performing Ethnomusicology: Teaching and Representation in World Music Ensembles.
In T. Solis (Ed.), Performing Ethnomusicology: Teaching and Representation in World Music Ensembles.
In N. Denzin & Y. Lincoln (Eds) Handbook of Qualitative Research (pp.455-487).
In T. Solis (Ed.), Performing Ethnomusicology: Teaching and Representation in World Music Ensembles.
 Music Education Background - When did you start learning music?
How long did lessons go for?
How were you taught?
- Have you ever had any frustrating experiences in learning?
