Music assists students in responding sensitively to their environment and develops an awareness of their cultural background.
Each student has abilities and skills, sensitivities and imaginative powers and, therefore, should experience success in responding to and creating music.
AIMS 1. To develop aesthetic sensitivity in students through activities which provide direct contact with the elements of music.
5. develop skills of physical coordination.
The semantic meaning of aesthetic sensitivity is response to that which displays or contains beauty.
In music, we teach for aesthetic sensitivity by helping students become aware of the aesthetic properties, the elements of music.
Why?
Why?
Why?
Why?
The characteristics find particular relevance in the content and method of an effective music program.
Rapid and varied physical changes can be skilfully accommodated in the music class.
Have we remembered to warm-up sufficiently?
Which calisthenic exercises will we use today?
Is our playing improving?
A simple rhythmic question and answer between teacher and student involves improvisation.
The intermediate program consolidates and enriches students learning.
Students use the basic elements of music to express such emotions as tranquillity, excitement, rage, spirituality.
Little by little, students learn to value their own contributions and those of others.
It is the very nature of the discipline.
This is particularly important during adolescent years when the student undergoes rapid and dramatic growth.
Actual music making must have priority at all times, but always within the framework of a planned and stated learning objective.
to enhance students understanding of basic concepts through more advanced activities.
Lois Choksy All music instruction must involve experiencing the elements of music in as many different ways as possible.
The intermediate grades are the years in which we assess the understanding of musical concepts.
Often the performance level of a student or class is far ahead of the students understanding level.
What has been learned in the classroom must be transferred and synthesized into the choral and instrumental performance domain.
Selection of Music In presenting any music to a class, the teacher places an implied value on that music.
It is recommended that the Exploratory Units be spread over an extended period of time rather than covered in blocks of time.
James Mursell A minimum allocation of three periods per six-day cycle is necessary for general music.
The acquisition of performance skills will vary according to the medium employed and students background experience.
Concepts emerge through proper questioning by the teacher and thinking by the student.
Concepts are not observable; however, they can be demonstrated through skills.
Skill activities should involve writing, reading, singing, moving to music, improvisation, listening, inner hearing, part singing, and analyzing form.
Tonal Centre Many melodies tend to establish a feeling of tonal centre or a sense of finality.
HARMONY Chords Three or more pitches sounding simultaneously constitute a chord.
Contrasting units may be used to provide variety.
14 Motives Musical works often contain brief groupings of rhythmic or pitch patterns called motives.
Sentences Sections Musical works often contain identifiable sections, each of which is composed of two or more periods and which collectively help to define the form of the work.
Each sound source produces its own distinctive timbre depending on its size, shape and material.
Changes in tempo may occur suddenly or gradually.
The intermediate music teacher must evaluate the musicianship of all students entering grade 7 during the first month of school and begin working from that point upward in skill and concept development, regardless of their level of competency.
identify and sing major, natural minor, and harmonic minor scales.
accompany two chord songs by singing the chords I and V (do-so or la-mi), using inversions for better voice leading.
identify rondo, theme and variations.
Music permeates each aspect of their lives.
Practice the melodic grouping in all possible patterns.
sing triads on do-so and la-mi as accompaniments to simple two chord songs.
However, there still must be sufficient variety in the lesson to accomplish the following: student preparation for music learning, both mentally and physically interest stimulation creation of an atmosphere which maximizes the opportunity for success.
Reinforcement and Review Some time should be spent in each lesson to review and reinforce recent musical learnings.
30 
