At its best, creativity in the classroom is about how a teacher captivates students and inspires them to learn.
Ireland participated in the research.
The aims for arts education were similar among all countries studied.
School culture is changed, and the conditions for learning are improved.
The visual arts Children today are growing up in a highly visual world, surrounded by the images of television, videos, advertising displays, and other media.
Children today do not have many opportunities to experience processes from beginning to end, and too often see only end products on television or on supermarket shelves.
Education in the visual arts can also contribute to childrens self-esteem and sense of personal empathy.
While the contexts in question are often initially inspired by stories, paintings, music and poetry, the exploration is deliberately structured to involve an open-ended quest for meaning.
The NI Curriculum lays great emphasis on freedom and creativity.
IAYO is a member of the European Association of Youth Orchestras, The National Association of Youth Orchestras (UK), the Forum for Music in Ireland, Jeunesses Musicales Ireland, and Feis Ceoil.
The musicians work with the students to develop their confidence and skills and each child retains through rote a series of rhythmic/melodic patterns which in turn develop into a musical piece which is performed live within the school on the final day of the workshop.
It is an integrated arts approach with three circle participants, Mary Manning, Marian OCallaghan and Helen Hallissey, who were honoured by being accepted to speak and present a Meitheal based on The Fields of Athenry at an international drama conference in Sydney, Australia in July 2009.
A third of respondents spend more than a fifth of their allocated time in the visual arts to these two strands, with a further 3% spending up to three quarters of their time on these two strand units.
Only 4% indicated that such tuition took place after school hours only.
The following quotations illustrate the satisfaction and joy experienced by teachers in teaching the arts: Childrenspositiveresponseenthusiasm,engagement,satisfaction,fun.
October Lucas, B (2001) Creative Teaching, Teaching Creativity and Creative Learning, in Craft, A., Jeffrey, B., & Leibling, M. (Eds) (2001), Creativity in Education.
(1995) Listening to Mozart enhances spatial- temporal reasoning: towards a neurophysiological basis, Neuroscience Letters, Volume 185, Issue 1, 6 February 1995, Pages 44-47 Read, H. (1947) Education Through Art cited in Breakwell D. R. (1976) Beyond Aesthetics, London: Thames and Hudson, p90) Reid, L.A (1983) Art Teaching and the Conceptual Understanding of Art, in Art Education: Heritage and Prospect, A. Dyson, (ed).
I This year we have just completed an in-depth study of WSE.
Creativity is by no means confined to the arts though the arts are central.
Some storytelling later this afternoon, and tomorrow a further example of our oral tradition.
The groundbreaking theory of multiple intelligences, developed by Howard Gardner, broadens our view of how humans learn and realise their potential.
The visual arts Children today are growing up in a highly visual world, surrounded by the images of television, videos, advertising displays, and other media.
Children today do not have many opportunities to experience processes from beginning to end, and too often see only end products on television or on supermarket shelves.
Until the latter years of the twentieth century, the arts did not play a central role in the Irish national school curriculum, which was almost exclusively focused around reading, writing and arithmetic.
There is no one size fits all Arts Week.
I think it is even going to become more fun this year than it was last year and again next year.
So you can see from the following quotes that Arts Week brought the whole community together and I thought that this was very important.
I hope it was of benefit to you and I have no doubt that there is wonderful work going on in the arts in all sorts of ways in the schools.
Such individuals typically hold views of education indistinguishable from the 19th century industrialists who championed universal education only for the contribution it could make to profit, not to human development, personal fulfilment and societal well being.
The key issue to consider is if the arts played such a profound role at that critical time in our past, then they can and should be utilised fully to shape a new and better future for all of us.
A good example of this is the current obsession in the USA with what are called the STEM subjects science, technology, engineering and maths.
I wonder at the skill of youngsters in the area of technology.
To most members of oral cultures the natural world is not made up of objective phenomena, but is rather imbued with vivid dramas in which gods and spirits of various kinds are ever-active and the individuals behaviour must be co- ordinated with these great dramas.
Expanding on this theme he goes on to state that the hunger of the mind, of the imagination, is so ethereal as almost to defy definition, but it commonly indicates its presence in the story.
But you are probably creative in other ways.
Cultural transformation is incremental.
One of them is that the relationship between the arts and the community at local level needs to be strengthened very much and to do this requires that an awful lot of agencies who are available to provide the support, we must find a way of co-ordinating this provision and bringing it together in some way so that it has real impact, particularly in the rural constituencies where there isnt much access very often or where the access is quite different.
Milo Walsh In terms of funding there really is no simple answer to that one in terms of managing your own budgets in a school situation.
(If yes, what should such a role be, and what should be the relationship with the class teacher?) Is it possible to teach a skill competently without being skilled in that area yourself teaching an instrument, or a choir?
Music appreciation displays could also be on corridors.
Drama?
I was here until 4.30 yesterday pinning all thirty pieces of art on the notice boards!
These concerns mirror those expressed by many of my students studying for the Higher Diploma in Primary Education with Hibernia College and those expressed by the many teachers I meet on in-career courses.
We made that last year in Ms. Murphys class!
We need to consider here the theory of multiple intelligences or the idea that all children possess different learning strengths.
The curriculum has been designed to take account of all these strengths and likes through the inclusion of three 2D strands, three 3-D strands and the strand units of making and looking and responding.
Consider the descriptions of these two types of intelligence: Spatial Intelligence - reports clear visual images - reads maps, charts and diagrams more easily than text - daydreams a lot - enjoys art activities - good at drawings - likes to view movies, slides or other visual presentations - enjoys doing puzzles, mazes or similar visual activities - builds interesting three dimensional constructions - gets more out of pictures than words while reading - doodles on workbooks, worksheets and other materials Bodily Kinaesthetic Intelligence - excels in one or more sports Creativity and the Arts in Primary School 127 - moves, twitches, taps or fidgets while seated for a long time - cleverly mimics other peoples gestures or mannerisms - loves to take things apart and put them back together again - puts hands all over something seen - enjoys running, jumping, wrestling or similar activities - shows skill in a craft ( e.g. woodworking, sewing, mechanics ) or good fine motor coordination in other ways - has a dramatic way of expressing him/herself - reports different physical sensations while thinking or working - enjoys working with clay or other tactile experiences ( e.g. finger-painting ) Is it surprising then that Johnny (who may slot into the kinaesthetically intelligent bracket) might prefer to and indeed excel at, work in the area of construction?
It is an active exploring process that enables the child to experienceandunderstandawidevarietyofperceptions,thoughtsandfeelings.Atthe earlieststagesitmaybebettertothinkofmarkmakingratherthandrawing.Drawing traces the childs engagement with experimenting, investigating, remembering or imagining.A key thing to remember is that a drawing is evidence of both a childs struggletounderstandandtocommunicate.
6. As a class make an inventory of classroom materials that will be needed scissors, card, staplers, masking tape, glues, coloured papers, paints, brushes.
animals, food, monsters, etc.) working with a new ball of clay when the first one begins to get dry (store these in a basin and cover with a damp cloth in order to refresh for further use ) choosing to make a favourite thing connected to the theme that we might keep, allow to dry and decorate.
What Should Be Assessed?
(2) Expressive Abilities and Skills: - Can a child express his/her ideas, feeling and experiences through a varied range of art materials?
