Micro Classroom, teacher Instruction plan for module or course.
Curriculum development, as a process, continually strives to find newer, better, more effective and efficient means of improving the quality and relevance of education.
For example, learning environments are of greater relevance at a micro or nano level, while international assessment programs such as Trends in Mathematics and Sciences Study or Programme for International Student Assessment are often of greater relevance to policy makers at provincial and Pan-Canadian levels.
Table 2: Components and Related Questions (Adapted from Thijs & van den Akker, 2009) Component Related Question Program Rationale or Vision Why are students learning what they are learning?
Program/Course Content What are they learning?
The overloaded curriculum does not respond to students interests and teachers feel pressured to cover the curriculum that may be pitched at a level that is too high for students to achieve (Levin, 2007).
Unfortunately, current research, with its focus on descriptive knowledge, does not provide developers with useful solutions to their problems.
Further, curriculum development can no longer be viewed as a project that has a start and an end.
Direct copying or transfer of curriculum from another jurisdiction as a means of addressing mobility and qualifications, without taking into account cultural and political differences, teaching traditions and provision of education, is not advisable.
1619) describe four basic models of curriculum development that are summarized in Table 3. 32 / Chapter 1: Curriculum Development Processes From Knowledge to Action 2012 Alberta Education, Alberta, Canada Table 3: General Characteristics of Four Curriculum Development Models Curriculum Orientation Instrumental Communicative Artistic Pragmatic Elements Description Based on the Tyler model (1949) and further elaborated by Taba (1962) and emphasizes a goal- directed approach to design.
Based on Eisners (1979) concept of connoisseurship that emphasizes the developers creativity.
Definition of a Good Curriculum Meets predetermined objectives or requirements.
Ongoing revision of curriculum is made meaningful and possible, as emphasis is on creative interaction with curriculum in practice, especially at school and student levels.
Finally, the composition of the team involved in the development process can have an impact on the product.
The second draft or Response Draft will be used with external stakeholders and other government ministries.
Local curriculum supplements other areas of learning in vocational learning, and allows for additional extension and contextualization of the national curriculum.
9).
9).
9).
43).
9).
The decision was made to have a national syllabus that was general in nature, so that at the local level they could adapt the broad guidelines, defined in the curriculum document as outcomes- focused, to meet the needs of their students.
Although schools are obligated to align their curriculum with the principles contained within the New Zealand curriculum, schools are given sufficient latitude to plan programs to meet local school needs (New Zealand Ministry of Education, 2007).
Theme 2: Strategies and Practices for Developing and Updating Curriculum Another aspect of curriculum development involves determining what constitutes the need for curriculum review or an overall change.
As a result, one of the requirements for national curriculum development is robust and dynamic communication channels to ensure transparency and provide for information exchange, input and commentary from all interested parties.
In case of agreement, this will occur within a month; in case of disagreement, the dossier will be referred back to one of the previous stages for a new proposal.
Local government has no educational role (INCA, 2012).
The national curriculum serves to outline broad outcomes and schools are required to develop their own curricula based upon these guidelines.
Consequently, books are not approved by the State.
Canadian Jurisdictions British Columbia, in its redesign, will engage with a number of stakeholders internally and externally.
To enable this engagement and consultation, the Department for Education intends to organize a series of consultations events for key stakeholders and work to ensure head teachers, classroom teachers, parents and others are able to contribute to the work of developing the new national curriculum (England Department of Education, 2011b, p 7).
Vitikka, Krokfors and Hurmerinta (2012) characterize the Finnish development process for the common core curriculum as a blended model between hierarchicalcentralized and democraticdecentralized approaches to curriculum development.
Different jurisdictions have achieved this in various ways, from developing broad curricula that is localized at the regional or school level to centralized curricula that is very prescriptive in nature.
One possibility for achieving this in the future is through the use of online access that allows for the tagging of programs of study data (learner outcomes) so that individuals can build a unique, customized, collection of programs of study or learner outcomes based on the individual needs of their students, as Need Ministerial authorization Communicate program information and implementation Offer teacher orientation and support for implementation Identify changes and implications Link proposed changes to goals, policies and strategic plans Consult Collaborate Communicate Identify issues and concerns Assess needs Review research and background information Implement Review Initiate Plan Develop Develop project plan (who, what, how, costs and timelines) Develop program outcomes Identify resources Gather feedback and revise program or resource or assessment 62 / Chapter 1: Curriculum Development Processes From Knowledge to Action 2012 Alberta Education, Alberta, Canada has been done in Scotland.
Theme 2: Strategies and Practices for Developing and Updating Curriculum There is limited documentation regarding the strategies used to develop curriculum or the best or promising practices employed by different jurisdictions.
The identification of a rationale for change (triggers) and the nature of triggers seem to be fairly consistent across jurisdictions and this commonality in the triggers is not surprising.
In essence, curriculum development projects are designed to solve complex problems of bridging education policy aims to outputs, such as programs of study, assessment, and learning and teaching resources.
This iterative approach can be termed as the prototyping approach (Plomp & Nieveen, 2007, pp.
Historically, the provision of public services was provided by government departments that were disaggregated, hierarchical and driven by rules and procedures.
8 New Public Management refers to the movement of government from the public servant who provided services to the public outside of the political process to government servants who need to be more responsive to both the preferences of beneficiaries, citizens who pay for service provision through tax, and politicians who represent the collective will and make policy choices.
It cannot be assumed that the roles of any users will remain static over time so consideration must be given to ensure that ongoing changes in the roles of various users and stakeholders are accounted for at every step of the development process.
68 / Chapter 1: Curriculum Development Processes From Knowledge to Action 2012 Alberta Education, Alberta, Canada Conclusion For Alberta, the synchronous development of curriculum (programs of study, assessment, and learning and teaching resources) and simultaneous development in English and French will require significant changes to the current processes for curriculum development.
Curriculum design paper v2.0.
(2012).
(2012).
London, England: Department for Education.
(2012).
Leyendecker, R., & Letschert, J. (2008).
Key features of the national education monitoring project.
(2007).
Finnish lessons: What can the world learn from educational change in Finland?
(2012).
(2007).
In T. Plomp & N. Nieveen (Eds.), An introduction to educational design research (pp.
(New York, USA).
