If it is causative, does it involve shaping of connectivity between areas of the brain network involved?
The intervention consisted of five days of training on computerized exercises of conflict resolution, under highly motivating conditions.
Through genetic studies, it has been shown that specific forms of several dopamine and serotonin genes were related to differences in the efficiency with which conflict is resolved.
I am artistic.
Development & Psychopathology.
(2000).
Students were drawn from five arts programs: music (N=16), dance (N=23), theater (N=26), creative writing (N=4), and visual arts (N=11).
Abstract number and arithmetic in young children.
Cultural constraints on grammar and cognition in Piraha.
(2000).
To this study, we added measures to determine the effects of arts training on the childrens reading fluency and phonological awareness.
A callosal segmentation in the brain of one child is shown in Figure 3.1.
University of California at Santa Barbara 62 Learning, Arts and the Brain These imaging data, combined with behavioral data on a post-scanning dance test, demonstrate the emergence of action resonance processes in the human brain that are based on purely observational learning, and identify commonalities in the neural substrates for physical and observational learning.
We have used these tools and made them available to consortium members for their use in analyzing their own fMRI datasets.
We showed that during motor learning, the unimodal motor cortical activity preceded the response in higher-order multimodal association areas, including posterior parietal cortex.
Thus, cognitive control is a system that is critical for all types of learning.
These measurements are derived from both univariate as well as multivariate analyses.
This suggests that slow learning mechanisms selectively modify the efficiency of regions specific to the domain of expertise, as well as that of higher-level associative regions.
Overall, the results of this experiment support the first general hypothesis of the Dana Foundation grant, that is, training in the arts changes the brain.
Arts Education, the Brain, and Language Kevin Niall Dunbar, Ph.D.
Of course we compared our new task to the more standard task and found good correlations between performance on the two different versions of the task.
We imaged 30 students (10 in each of our 3 groups).
Overall, we found some differences at both the behavioral and genetic level.
A third avenue is to administer the same tasks to a more diverse population in which participants have a wider range of SAT scores and a more diverse socio-economic background.
Overall, we found some differences at both the behavioral and genetic level.
Contrary Imaginations, Penguin Books, Harmondsworth, UK.
(2000).
At the close of this section is a list of the Tangible Products emanating from year three of this research, while similar lists from the first two years were provided in earlier reports.
Petitto and team then began recruiting, screening, and studying participants for both the Dance and Music studies, and they also started data analyses for the Music study.
Methods Extensive measures were taken to equate our participants across multiple dimensions to ensure that the only major difference between groups was in their arts (dance) expertise.
Regarding assessment, participants underwent standardized assessments, including measures of non-verbal relational reasoning, language competence, cognitive and attentional processing, and biological motion perception (consisting of whole body dance and walk visual processing).
(forthcoming).
We enrolled a total of 88 children from Head Start preschools.
The central and powerful role of adult attention and guidance is also underscored by the results of a separate study conducted by us, in which children did not receive any intervention.
Nonetheless, it is also likely that learning music trains and builds cognitive resources.
Many of these studies report that patients showed improvements in sustained attention and executive function (Ethier et al.
The measures were administered by testers who were blind to the groups to which the children belonged.
This is based on five nonverbal subtests associated with each of five cognitive factors that are measured by the SB-5: fluid reasoning, knowledge, quantitative reasoning, visual-spatial processing, and working memory.
and Neville, H.J.
Developmental Psychology, 2003, vol.
and Neville, H.J.
20, p. 236-242.
Neville, H.J.
I. Normal hearing adults.
Neville, H.J.
II.
Neville, H.J.
Music training causes long-term enhancement of preschool childrens spatial- temporal reasoning.
and Neville, H.J.
Wechsler, D. Wechsler preschool and primary scale (3rd Edition ed.).
In 2000, he was recruited to the Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute and Department of Psychology at the University of California, Berkeley to become Professor of Neuroscience and Psychology, and the Director of their newly created Henry H. Wheeler, Jr.
For the past 20 years he has been investigating the ways that people think and reason in complex environments and has focused on the effects of education, both in the performing arts and in science, on the brain.
His methods for measuring these networks have been applied to neurological, psychiatric and developmental disorders.
He worked for three years conducting research on the Dana Arts and Cognition Consortium.
Dr. Richs background in communications and education includes posts at Rutgers University and Marymount Manhattan College, where she was dean and then a vice president.
See also biomarkers; BOLD imaging; mrDiffusion; long-term potentiation diffusion tensor imaging, 5159 functional Near Infrared Spectroscopy, 93101 magnetic resonance imaging, 11, 13, 6167, 7179, 8190 NIH.
See Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale-3rd Ed.
