In the light of this, certain developments in multicultural music education in Victoria will be examined within the context of broad national and international developments in this field.
Numbers and diversity, alone, however, do not justify the claim that this continent is the site of a remarkable social experiment.
In America, group singing in schools led to the publication of several song collections, notable among them being the popular collection by Casterton (1913).
With the emergence of new textbooks and other instructional material in audio form, students in early secondary school listened to recordings of what were regarded as the most important and/or popular works of the late baroque, romantic and classical periods.
In the early 1800s, the Swiss educationist Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi rejected traditional approaches to education that concentrated on the memorisation of material and the sheer acquisition of knowledge based on fact in favour of an approach that actively promoted exploration and discovery.
The monocultural content of Australian education has been led and reinforced by music teachers who have largely received extensive private instruction on a solo orchestral instrument and have frequently fulfilled the requirements of the Australian Music Examinations Board (AMEB).
Until recently, particularly in rural schools, the broadcasts and the song books were an important part of the life of the school.
When, later on, options were introduced into assessment, only those dealing with Western music were able to be considered.
According to his schema, the appreciation movement as described above would be classified as assimilationist, one which seeks to undermine, indeed even destroy cultural diversity.
Leading multicultural music educator, David Elliott, in a seminal article (1989), transferred the schema of Pratte into one for multicultural music education.
He maintains that - the assimilationist music curriculum is identifiable by its exclusive concern with the major musical styles of the Western European classical tradition.
The classics are considered superior to the musical products of minorities and subgroups.
Kalantzis et al (1990) has interpreted, developed and extended government policy into a usable definition for education as follows: Multiculturalism thus means removing barriers to access to mainstream society/culture in a context which is nevertheless open to cultural diversity and which actively faces the demands of non-discriminatory intercultural communication in the school and the community.
(Kalantzis, 1990: 241) Coupled with that is the influence of the contemporary music of the world on music education, and the increasing pressure brought to bear on music educators to introduce popular music into the classroom, with examples such as the recordings of popular singer Paul Simon with the black group Ladysmith Black Mombazo.
The weakness in this model, maintains Drummond, is that the central position of Western classical and art music remains unchallenged.
This has led to the development of the ethnomusicological design and approach to multiculturalism which is based on Merriam's definition of ethnomusicology, It involves study on three analytical levels - conceptualisation about music, behaviour in relation to music, and sound itself.
The first of these represents a view supported by ethnomusicologists and historical ethnomusicologists, that the distinctness of each musical culture means that it should be studied separately and viewed in terms of its own essential qualities.
Quoting Werner's Preface to Jenne's book provides an insight into the position of comparative musicologists: He (Jenne) discussed the parameters of sound, time, frequency, dynamics and tone colour, which in the United States have been called The common elements of music'...Those elements, along with the basic functions of listening, creating and performing music, have been referred to as the basis for the concept of comprehensive musicianship.
One may also search for those elements that are clearly cross-cultural, such as drones, and study their presence in the music of Renaissance Europe, Indian classical music and so on.
Swanwick (1988) summarises his argument as: Schools exist not to transmit an arbitrary or limited selection of cultural values ...
[the] process of cultural and self-transcendence can be initiated at any level or age ...
This sensitivity arises out of receptive attention coupled with an understanding of the universality of musical practice and a recognition that idiomatic variations arise out of a common theme, best rendered as a verb, an impulse to music'...A music curriculum that is truly pluralistic might best be generated by identifying sets of sounds in a progressive sequence, linking these to specific for instances drawn from musical cultures and chosen for their impact.
In the first of these, he works towards the development of a philosophy of music education in a global context.
music is created by an individual's personal application of a constellation of metaphors to inert sounds.
Taking Pratte as a basis, the many ways of dealing with multicultural music education can be organised into six models.
He divides these six models into two groups of three, where the first group - consisting of Assimilation, Amalgamation and Open Society models - is principally concerned with the destruction of cultural diversity and the creation of majority values.
Attention to traditional music of any land is viewed as an irrelevant and unnecessary retention, and the majority taste and preference are viewed as paramount.
As such, it is not a strongly multicultural model.
A comparison between Elliott's work - which derives from Pratte and others - and other models in the general field of education shows that a strong congruence exists.
The Progressivist curriculum in Australia may be described as the first step in the development towards recognising the aspects of cultural difference and the servicing of minorities in education.
They were the Racial Discrimination Act of 1975 and the consequent establishment of the Commission for Community Relations, the Galbally recommendations of 1978 which recognised non-English backgrounds for provision of government services, the delivery of migrant welfare through subsidised ethnic organisations, government support for community languages and media, and the development of a research institution for multicultural affairs.
(Mark, 1978: 31) Two years later, the Manhattanville Music Curriculum Program (MMCP) of New York began work under the leadership of Ronald Thomas.
As such, the Music Study Design gave broad scope for the selection of content; indeed, the absence of any specificity in relation to the content apart from the stylistic restrictions enables a content that would suit a wide range of student preferences and needs, teacher expertise, and educational situations.
The Board of Studies has published booklets of Course Development Support Material (CDSM) to assist students and teachers in the delivery of the course.
For example, the section dealing with Rhythm: Metre in the Sample Sequence for Unit 1 has a sub-section for metre in twos and threes; examples of these are given as: Indian music - Rupak Tal, Brubeck - Three to Get Ready (1960), Greek Music - San Kemena Palikari, Brubeck - Blue Rondo alla Turk (1960), and Ellis - Turkish Bath (1968).
Most music teachers who believe that they should demonstrate an allegiance to their own musical cultures, and who find it difficult, indeed even impossible, to do justice to this model of music education, find it difficult to defend an involvement in world musics.
Hoffer (1988), sympathetic to the problems that music teachers face suggests a solution to the problem: 1. Select a representative example of music ...
Kent: Novello Caldwell, 0 1971 The New Humanism in S Kertesz (ed) The Task of Universities in a Changing World.
Notre Dame Cameron, Alexandra E 1969 The Class Teaching of Music in Secondary Schools, Victoria 1905-1955.
Sydney: Pluto Press Casterton, E et al (eds) 1913 18 Songs for Commmunity Singing.
Sydney: Pluto Press Committee to Advise on Australia's Immigration Policies 1988 Immigration: A Commitment to Australia: Report of the Committee to Advise on Australia's Immigration Policies.
XV: 90-95 Fullagar, Sharon 1983 The Curriculum and Education for a Multicultural Society in E Aird and D Lippmann (eds), English is their right.
London: Universal Lowens, Irving 1971 Music: Juilliard Repertory Project and the Schools.
Melbourne Ministry of Education 1988 The Arts Framework P-10.
Sydney: Australian Music Centre Reirner, Bennett 1970 A Philosophy of Music Education.
Discoveries vs Definitions.
New York: Media Materials Victorian Curriculum and Assessment Board 1991 VCE Music Study Design.
