However, music educators are still expected to be able to produce musically literate students capable of completing high level music courses in upper secondary school.
The results revealed significant increases in music literacy levels among the DI classes, especially on the measures of rhythmic literacy.
Pre- and post-testing of the levels of students musical literacy, using Gordons Iowa Tonal and Rhythm Tests as a benchmark, was undertaken to determine whether the DI intervention resulted in any significant differences to Year 7 student music literacy levels over the period of the intervention.
A problem readily identified with the move towards generic Arts education has been a resulting lack of continuity, as students in lower secondary school often take part in arts taster courses which alternate between visual arts, drama, dance and media (Grattan, 2006; Stevens, 2005; Walker, 2005).
27).
In effective DI lessons, students are active in responding to teacher questions, analysing examples and most importantly, practicing skills to the point where they can be used with little or no mental effort.
She states that the need for competence is innate.
Duffrin claims that it does not motivate students and is authoritarian, and it fails to address individual student differences.
In a more general condemnation in relation to the theories of Piaget and Bruner, Burns, Hart, Charlesworth and Kirk (cited in Vukmir, 2002) state that teacher-centred programs may hinder childrens development of interpersonal understanding and their broader social-cognitive and moral development (p.
In a wide-ranging assessment of its effectiveness measured against other teaching approaches, Hattie (2009) found just over a 50% improvement in student achievement in language literacy, mathematics and special education settings over student-centred learning approaches.
While these findings are encouraging, details of the nature of the programmes analysed by Hattie need careful examination, including the percentage of time occupied by DI within each lesson.
In particular, those who favour the constructivist student-centred teaching approaches see it as out of step with modern educational thinking, while advocates praise its time efficiency and supposedly motivational values.
For this study, Gordons Iowa Tests of Music Literacy were used as the benchmarks against which literacy levels were assessed.
At the research school, music is a compulsory class subject in Years 7 / 8, is elective from Year 9, and the school offers a range of VCE music units in Years 11 and 12.
The DI approach is used to introduce and reinforce basic skills which can then be applied in other contexts in the body of the lesson.
In addition to teacher scripts, student worksheets were created for each lesson and students also received a record sheet for recording their progress on each question in each lesson so they Direct Instruction and music literacy 8 2012, No. 1 could keep track of their improvement.
Data on student music literacy levels was gathered at the start of the trimester using the Iowa Tests of music literacy (rhythm and tonal), and again at the end of the trimester (20 lessons over 13 weeks).
Testing was conducted using Iowa Test level 1 which aligned with the music literacy concepts used in the DI program developed for this study.
Data was collected at the start and end of the trimester, and thus comprised four sets of pre and post stage data (one for each class).
Data was then loaded onto SPSS version 17 and subjected to six different paired t-tests to establish whether there was any statistically significant difference between pre and post-test scores, based upon the Iowa Test results.
Results Table 1 presents the mean, and the mean differences from pre to post-test on each test for each of the four Year 7 classes.
However, the means produced a more uniform difference in post-test results, with both DI classes indicating major improvements in post- test rhythm results, and one DI class indicating a major improvement in post-test tonal results.
N = 74 diff Pre-test tonal Post-test t onal diff Pre-test rhythm Post-test rhythm diff Total mean Non DI 1 93 95 2.4 104 106 2.28 4.67 Non DI 2 100 106 5.18 105 100 -5.01 0.17 DI 1 85 104 18.51 97 114 16.1 34.64 DI 2 103 109 5.74 102 116 13.7 19.92 Lowe and Belcher Australian Journal of Music Education 9 decline in post-test rhythm test results.
N = 74 Pre-test Post-test Mean SD Mean SD Mean difference Significance Combined non DI 104.44 14.20 102.97 13.78 -1.47 .228 Combined DI 99.03 14.23 114.44 13.67 15.41 .000* For combined non-DI, t = 1.23, df = 30, p = .228 For combined DI, t = -7.06, df = 35, p < .000 Direct Instruction and music literacy 10 2012, No. 1 size and the exploratory nature of the study, no further data manipulation was undertaken at this stage.
The bigger issue at the core of this research is that music as a subject remains the square peg in a round hole.
For students to achieve their potential in music, they require long-term sequential programs which allow the development, formalisation and refinement of specific aural and physical skills.
The DI intervention was created to build basic music literacy skills, and the researchers to not advocate it as a teaching method for applied music activities such as composition or performance.
A DI approach can be used to develop basic literacy skill sets, leading to the introduction of more applied student-centred learning activities later in the lesson.
To this end, the researchers present a model for planning class music lessons in lower secondary school, designed to maximising the effectiveness of DI and utilise and reinforce the resulting skills.
4 mins 2 Clearly state the learning intentions of the lesson, which has been written up on the board for students.
2 mins 4 Present the 10 minute Direct Instruction program as scripted, including modelling and checking for understanding.
The strength of this project is the finding that a small change in teaching approach can yield potentially substantial results.
Berkley, R. (1999).
Classroom 4: Ways into notation and literacy.
Sequential Patterns and the Music Teaching Effectiveness of Elementary Education Majors.
Proceedings of the XV ASME National Conference (pp.
Melbourne: University of Melbourne.
(5th edition).
Boston: Pearson.
This is your brain on music: Understanding a human obsession.
London: Atlantic Books.
A study into year 8 student motivation to continue class music in Perth, Western Australia.
Retrieved on September 12, 2009 from http://www.
In M. Wittrock (Ed.), Handbook of research on teaching (3rd ed., pp.
Smith, R., & Southcott, J. (2004).
Proceedings of the XV ASME National Conference (pp.
Melbourne: University of Melbourne.
Proceedings of the XV ASME National Conference (pp.
Melbourne: University of Melbourne.
Music and Elementary Education Students Evaluations of Music-Teaching Scripts.
He teaches into both the undergraduate and postgraduate music education courses in addition to conducting various community ensembles in the most isolated capital city in the world.
