It also examines if there is a difference between the preservice teachers perceptions of their own background and confidence in drama education in relation to each of the five countries (Australia, South Africa, Namibia, USA and Ireland).
When preservice primary generalist teachers enrol in their teacher education courses, research by Ng (2010) notes that they bring with them a wide variety of backgrounds, experiences, prior learning and related confidence in each of the subjects they are required to teach when they graduate.
Based on the results of this survey, suggestions are made to enhance preservice teacher education arts courses to enhance the teaching of drama education in primary schools by generalist teachers.
Similarly, research by Campbell, McRobbie, Ginns and Stein (2000) found that having students engaged in technology projects in their teacher education course significantly broadened and deepened their understandings of technology as a process for teaching.
As seen above, although primary teachers generally lack confidence and competence in teaching the arts, including drama, this can also be claimed in relation to other subjects in the curriculum.
Alter et als (2009) study confirms this, indicating that primary school teachers lack of confidence in teaching one or more arts subjects impacts significantly on the effective teaching and learning within the creative arts classroom and that their life experiences shape the way they teach the arts subjects.
The five countries were selected because teacher education institutions in these countries responded to the invitation to be involved in this research project.
Henry (2000) notes that The National Endowment for the Arts notes that the arts are necessary for childrens holistic development and that when children lack a quality arts education they can become disconnected from each other and from the world.
When the arts were taught in primary classrooms, teachers tended to focus on music and visual arts with dance and drama being taught much less.
In relation to the large elementary schools, only 19 out of the 124 schools (15.3%) offered drama instruction, and this focussed mainly on performance drama.
In a later but similar study by the National Center for Education Statistics (2002), results indicated that about 19% of all public elementary schools offered students regular instruction in drama during the regular school day in 1999-2000.
In Australia, drama was originally taught as part of the English curriculum but when the six Key Learning Areas were implemented, drama became part of the arts syllabus along with music, visual arts and dance (Russell-Bowie, 2011).
However, in practice the arts are generally less prominent in their practice and provision.
It is hoped that the implementation of whole school evaluations and further staff development in Ireland, as noted in the Council of Europe (2011) report, will improve the practice of, and provision for, drama and arts education in Ireland as the paucity of provision of arts in Irish education has been well documented.
Although drama is mentioned as one of the art forms to be taught in the primary curriculum it is also noted that there is too little curriculum time to teach the arts, so after school co-curricular activities such as drama groups are recommended to supplement the curriculum.
This paper investigates the background and confidence of preservice generalist primary teachers in these five countries in relation to drama education.
Method Participants The participants included 936 university students enrolled in preservice education programs in Australia (41%), Namibia (20%), South Africa (27%), USA (6%) and Ireland (6%).
Table 1 indicates the sample numbers and percentages of these countries.
Apart from the demographic questions, each of the other questions had one stem with four endings, and each of the endings related either to music, visual arts, dance or drama.
Students were asked to complete the survey during lectures at each University or College and students took between 15 and 30 minutes to complete the surveys which were collected as students completed them.
In a follow up project it is anticipated that focus groups be developed to drill down into the results of this survey.
These results indicate that although almost half of the students indicated that they enjoyed drama teaching and felt confident to teach drama, 85% of them felt they had little background in drama.
There were no significant differences between the means of students responses in South Africa and Namibia in relation to their background in drama, although Namibian responses were slightly higher than their South African counterparts.
*Significant differences in background between Australia, and Namibia, South Africa, USA and Ireland.
Overall results for all sampled students were analysed using a Pearsons product moment correlation coefficient (Pearsons r) to determine the relationship between the students perceptions of their background and confidence in drama teaching and education.
The results from Research Question 4, examining if there is a correlation between students perceived background and confidence in drama education, also indicate that there is a strong relationship between these two factors.
It is interesting to note that the results from Research Question 3 indicated that 15% of the students felt that they had a strong background and 46% of the sampled students indicated that they felt confident in teaching drama.
Thus, as Baum et al (1997) notes, primary aged school children tend not to be comfortable in moving their bodies creatively whether in dance, drama or movement to music.
In drama education, this could include process drama as well integrating drama with other subjects, observation of quality drama lessons and development of personal drama skills of each student.
Process drama focuses on the processes involved in exploring and making drama, compared with drama that focuses on the final product.
Rather they focus on improvising dramatic events that are created and developed over a period of time and are not limited to one-off experiences, lessons or scenes.
Global research compendium on the impact of the arts in education: The WOW factor!
Germany: Waxmann.
School Science and Mathematics, 106: 173-180.
The development of knowledge structures in learning to teach.
Preservice primary teachers thinking about technology and technology education.
(1999).
RMIT, Department of Education and Science.
(2013).
Fleming, L., Motamedi, V. and May, L. (2007).Predicting preservice teacher competence in computer technology: Modeling and application in training environments.
Journal of Artistic and Creative Education 1: 205-21.
Dance education in the 21st century: a global perspective.
International Journal of Pedagogies and Learning 4: 58- 73.
(1999).
The teaching of arts as Ngoma in an African context.
McNoughton, M. J. (1997).
National Center for Education Statistics.
Context or essence - the place of drama in the curriculum.
Public Law, (2001).
