An exploratory factor analysis retained a 10-item single factor that was replicated using confirmatory factor analysis procedures.
The merits associated with involvement in musical activities have encouraged many countries to incorporate music into their national curriculum from pre-school to postsecondary education (Snyder, 1997).
Rainbow (1996) argued that a confident music teacher was meant to help new learners master musical skills more quickly.
The results also revealed non- significant differences between Key Stage 1 (ages 4-7) and Key Stage 2 (ages 7-11) teachers in their confidence levels to teach music.
The present study attempts to build on the work of Holden and Button (2006) through developing a scale that aims at measuring teachers confidence levels to conduct musical activities with young children; Teachers Music Confidence Scale (TMCS).
262 A Rasch analysis of the Teachers Music Confidence Scale Measurements The Teachers Music Confidence Scale (TMCS) is designed according to the Guide to the Pre- primary Curriculum (Hong Kong Curriculum Development Council, 2006; Hong Kong Curriculum Development Institute, 1996); South Australian Curriculum, Standards and Accountability Framework (Department of Education and Childrens Services, 2004) and the National Standards for Music Education (1994).
For pre-service teachers, the TMCS was administered and collected in-person in the same session.
0.72 5. Composing / improvising music.
0.70 8. Using multimedia tools to facilitate teaching.
0.60 Eigenvalue 7.1 Unidimensionality In order to test whether the items of the TMCS fitted the Rasch model, it was necessary to examine whether or not the items of the TMCS were unidimensional since the unidimensionality of items was one of the requirements for the use of the Rasch model (Anderson, 1994; Hambleton & Cook, 1977).
Consequently, confirmatory factor analysis procedure was used to test the unidimensionality of TMCS items.
Thus, confirmatory factor analysis assumes that the observed variables are derived from some underlying source variables (Kim & Mueller, 1978).
Second, the distances or the steps among the response categories were equal for an item and through all items of a scale, that is, the level of the underlying trait required to move from one response category to another was the same for an item and was equal across all items of a scale.
When n > i, n = i, and n < i, the chances of a yes response is greater than 50 per cent, equal to 50 per cent, and less than 50 per cent, respectively.
The rating scale model is an additive linear model that describes the probability that a specific person (n) will respond to a specific Likert-type item (i) with a specific rating scale step (x).
The ( ) ( ) exp 1 exp in ni in p = + exp( ) ( ) 1 exp( ) n i j nij n i j p fn = + 1 1 1 1 e x p ( ) 1 e x p ( ) m i k n i j k j n i j m i k n i j k j p = = = = = + Yim, Abd-El-Fattah and Lee 265 RUMM program (Andrich, Sheridan, & Luo, 2000), however, was used to plot the Item Characteristic Curve and Category Probability Curve with thresholds for an example item of the TMCS.
Specifically, the range of the INFIT MNSQ for all items of the TMCS were 0.90 to 1.20.
Figure 3. Item Characterise Curve for Item 1 of the TMCS 266 A Rasch analysis of the Teachers Music Confidence Scale Figure 4 shows the threshold values for item 1 of the TMCS.
According to Bond and Fox (2001) a threshold is the level at which the likelihood of failure to endorse a given response category (below the threshold) turns to the likelihood of endorsing the category (above the threshold) (p.
Figure 4. Category Probability Curve and thresholds for item 1 of the TMCS Case Estimates It is also important when investigating the fit of the Rasch scale to data to examine the estimates for each case.
In order to identify whether the cases fit the Rasch scale or not, it is important to examine the case OUTFIT mean square statistic (OUTFIT MNSQ) which measures the consistency of the fit of the persons to the student characteristic curve for each student, with special consideration given to extreme items.
In the present analysis, the general guideline used for interpreting t as a sign of misfit was if t > +5 (Wright & Stone, 1979).
Thus, if the OUTFIT MNSQ value for a person had a t-value greater than t > + 5, that person did not fit the scale and was deleted from the analysis.
Mean Testing A series of independent-sample t tests is presented in Table 3 and shows that in-service teachers have higher confidence levels to conduct musical activities with young children than the pre- service teachers, including, (a) singing, (b) dancing/moving/dramatising with music, (c) playing percussive instruments, (d) composing / improvising music, (e) integrating music into curriculum, (f) identifying childrens musical potentials, and (g) knowing about childrens musical interests.
It should be noted that the t-tests associated with the differences between the mean values did not make allowance for a cluster sample design.
In addition, in-service teachers showed higher overall levels of confidence to conduct musical activities with young children than pre-service teachers.
REFERENCES Adams, R. J., & Khoo, S. T. (1993).
Quest- The Interactive Test Analysis System.
1, pp.
Andrich, D. (1978).
Arbuckle, J. L. (2005).
New York: John Wiley.
Applying the Rasch model: Fundamental measurement in the human sciences.
Glover, J., & Ward, S. (1993).
Research in Dance Education, 2(1), 53-71.
Ho, Y. C., Cheung, M. C., & Chan, A. S. (2003).
Holden, H., & Button, S. (2006).
Music and the national curriculum in primary schools.
Mills, J. (1989).
British Journal of Music Education, 6(23), 125-138.
Mills, J. (1995/6).
In J. Aronson (Ed.), Improving academic achievement: Impact of psychological factors on education (pp.
267-278).
Rauscher, F. H., & LeMieux, M. T. (2003, April).
Where is music education in our primary schools?
National Standards for Music Education.
Rating scale analysis.
