From this assumption, the self-efficacy beliefs of pre-service teachers are important for investigation for recognition of confirming and disconfirming experiences that shape this motivational construct.
It will provide greater understandings of how self-efficacy beliefs of teaching capabilities create powerful influences on the overall effectiveness of the teacher with students.
The responsibility of the generalist teacher to engage with artistic practice in their classroom is dependent on their own beliefs about school context, pressures of the curriculum and benefits of the arts for students.
Graduation and beginning teachers need to demonstrate the currency and relevance of their knowledge, understanding, skills and values about music education.
It acknowledged that an education rich in the arts maximised opportunities for learner engagement and innovative thinking, while promoting social harmony and broad cultural understandings.
During the beginning phase of teaching, teacher self-efficacy is forming and once developed according to theory, is resistant to change (Bandura, 1997).
Some researchers have attempted to recognise the teaching context by exploring particular curriculum areas, with the perspective that teachers self-efficacy is related to a subjects individual goals and strategies.
These variables include school context, collective efficacy, school and demographics.
Demographic variables (such as race and gender) to do not appear to be systematically related to the self-efficacy beliefs for either beginning or career teachers (Tschannen-Moran & Woolfolk Hoy, 2007).
Conventional wisdom might assume that some schooling contexts are more difficult to teach in then others.
As yet however, the contextual variables of school settings are unrelated to beginning and experienced teachers, with no difference in efficacy beliefs between school locations (Tschannen-Moran & Woolfolk Hoy, 2007).
Tschannen-Moran and Woolfolk Hoy (2007) suggest this may be explained by beginning teachers being more idealistic that experienced peers about being able to reach students regardless of age, that they perceived they had been better prepared to cope with the needs of older students and so were undaunted by the challenges they might face, or that the mix of hope and fear was similar for beginning teachers regardless of the size and age of the students taught.
It is hypothesized that negative motivators towards the arts creates pre-service teacher beliefs to marginalize the arts in their teaching.
Data was analysed using an adapted version of Cavana et al.s (2001) and adapted version of their 15 stages of content analysis to identify key themes and meaning.
The participants were 15 pre-service teachers from the Graduate Diploma in Education at the University of Queensland.
Examples of each of the categories have been presented in Table 1. These motivators are similar to those identified by Oreck (2001) of generalist teachers in the United States.
For example, a current motivation suggested by one pre-service teacher that was considered within the category of student outcomes was: The joy of seeing students being able to gain something from hands on activities that incorporates inquiry based learning.
This may also be reflected by Russell-Bowies (2004) assertion that arts education is often considered the frills subject, being the first to leave the timetable if time is short and the first to receive budget cuts (Winner & Hetland, 2000; Bresler & Thompson, 2002).
One particular pre-service teacher showed high self-efficacy to engage with the arts in their teaching.
Alternatively, one pre-service teacher showed low self-efficacy towards engaging with the arts in their teaching.
This teacher had disclosed in their answers, even though they were not asked, negative experiences they had with arts specialist teachers in high school, who appeared to concentrate on only a few students with talent and excluded all the rest (Pre-service teacher 11, 2008).
This teacher later confirmed that they would not teach arts education as they felt they did not have the content experience.
School environment The school environment also appeared as a major contributor to levels of motivation for pre-service teachers.
Pre-service teachers wrote of how they needed such an environment if they were to undertake and execute the task of teaching arts education, because they felt it would be more accepted and valued by the entire school community.
The beliefs have to come from Heads of Departments and Garvis Australian Journal of Music Education  Principals before it can be achieved (pre-service teacher 8, 2008).
As one pre-service teacher commented, I actually have a prejudice that arts education does not calculate cost/benefit in terms of quantitative measurement of output that is not as subjective as a I believe it is (pre-service teacher 2, 2008).
It was also collected by convenience sampling so it is not a true random sample of the population.
It is possible that the pre- service teachers who volunteered for involvement in the study were more efficacious than other pre- service teachers for arts education.
Results indicated that negative beliefs towards motivation for the arts may impact on future execution to engage with the arts in teaching.
These however need to be created through an understanding of the four sources of self-efficacy.
New York: W.H.
Journal of Nutrition, Education and Behaviour, 35(6) 30811.
The arts in childrens lives: Context, culture and curriculum.
Teaching and Teacher Education, Retrieved October, 4, 2007 from www.sciencedirect.com.
Teacher efficacy: maturing the construct through research in alternative paradigms.
Teaching and Teacher Education, 20, 341-359.
Hobart Declaration on Schooling.
(2002).
Science Education, 74, 625- 638.
New sounds in primary school teacher education.
Proceedings from the ASME (Australian Society of Music Education) National Conference, Sydney.
International Journal of Music Education, 30, 26-34.
Tschannen-Moran, M. & Woolfolk Hoy, A. E. (2001).
Teaching and Teacher Education, 17(7), 783-805.
Wenner, G. (2001).
Susanne has been a generalist teacher and music specialist in early childhood, middle years and secondary school.
