All students at the Albury-Wodonga campus learned first to play keyboard and then how to use this knowledge and skill to teach young children.
Background In 1995 a new Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood) was created on the Albury-Wodonga campus of Charles Sturt University (CSU).
Keywords: teacher education, creative arts, music education.
Furthermore, The National Review of Music Education reported that teachers from general education degrees indicate that they lack sufficient knowledge, understanding and skills and accompanying confidence to teach music (Department of Education, Science and Training, 2005, p. 13).
The NSW K-6 Creative Arts Curriculum (2006) requires students at the highest level (Stage 3) to be able to notate as a means of recording and communicating musical ideas and to identify musical concepts and symbols (p.
New, but distinctly different, Bachelor of Education programs were designed and offered on the Bathurst campus and the Albury-Wodonga campus of CSU, allowing each group of teaching academics the ability to give each program its own flavour.
When the class was asked to reflect on memorable musical experiences both positive and negative, one student offered this very singing of their name as a major negative experience.
Keyboard as medium at MSE At MSE, a lab of 15 keyboards connected to the tutors console enabled students to be timetabled for 30-minute group lessons on a weekly basis throughout the semester.
The keyboards have the added advantage of providing various choices of sounds and rhythms as well as recording facilities, all easily accessed while using earphones.
However, many students chose to purchase or acquire their own keyboards, recognising the value of the instrument for multiple purposes within the classroom setting.
They were encouraged to begin building a repertoire of childrens songs that could be used specifically for children.
This collection would be relevant to the creative arts subject and other subjects for use across the school or early years curriculum.
As many of them were beginners themselves, they began to understand how they might teach young children the elements and practical skills of playing instrumental music.
In 2007 the focus was on individualised teaching.
However, with the tutor spending so much of the half-hour lesson on individuals needs, there was a lack of time for sufficient relating of the newly acquired music/keyboard knowledge and skills to other practical classroom teaching skills.
Both of these students had initial negative feelings about learning the keyboard but the computer programs seemed to change their attitude enough for them to return to keyboard classes.
These students were streamed into a music enrichment class.
A lack of knowledge of basic folk songs and nursery rhymes makes it evident that todays tertiary students have themselves suffered from poor music teaching in their kindergartens and primary schools.
The keyboard is still our preferred vehicle for learning but keyboard, music literacy skills and choice of repertoire must be demonstrated to be relevant to classroom teaching.
Tunes played on the keyboard could also be sung.
Other large group activities such as the Creative Arts lectures could incorporate more group singing.
Challenges for the new course In 2007, further revisions to undergraduate degrees were initiated.
This meant that the sequence of learning attached to Professional Experience would not be sustained.
For example, the campus with guitars and ukuleles had two expert teachers while the third newer and smaller campus had no instruments and the lecturer was not so confident.
There are still two Creative Arts subjects over the four-year course, so instead of five sequential semesters of keyboard lessons there are now two.
Austin suggested that with the small Educating pre-service classroom teachers 76 2010, No. 1 amount of time dedicated to music in Primary teaching degrees, it may be necessary for college instructors to make a paradigm shift (Austin, 2000 in Berke & Colwell, 2004, p. 7).
7).
It was decided to write the Creative Arts subjects broadly to include music instruction with each campus able to choose an instrument that could be confidently taught within the subjects.
Currently, the lecturer or tutor places the class materials into learning modules in the CSU online system so that students can review their learning.
The second author (J.M.), who has been part of the whole process since 1995, here reflects on that process.
Its been a curious and challenging task to consider the various incarnations of music teaching and learning during my (lengthy) time at CSU.
The initial importance assigned to the value of musical learning for the individual as the means for Munday and Smith Australian Journal of Music Education 77 confident transference of skills to music teaching in the classroom has not diminished.
Even the valiant efforts of those academics that value music and strive to fight for its inclusion in pre-service teacher degree programs are facing what they see as insurmountable odds.
I have a voice but I just cant sing: a narrative investigation of singing and social anxiety.
Keyboards launch students into music.
Arts Education Policy Review, 95(3), 30.
An alternative approach to developing music literacy skills in a transient society.
The Kodly method (Third ed.).
Elkoshi, R. (2007).
Harvey, I. (2008).
Retrieved 19/05/09, 2009, from http://www.mca.org.au/ web/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id= 280&Itemid=1 Hess, K. (2006).
The power of a song.
General Music Today, 21(2), 35-38.
Arts Education Policy Review, 95(3), 30.
Sins, N. (1990).
