The paper also examines the data to identify if there is a correlation between the students background and their confidence in music teaching.
Background Since the 1980s, the responsibility for music teaching in primary schools is situated with either a specialist or the generalist music teacher, as decided by the state and/or the school (Stevens, 1997).
As a result ...
Lazars study (2007) investigated preservice teachers attitudes towards children and teaching of reading.
Similarly, those who had arts lessons outside of schools were more likely to place a high value on the arts than those who did not have these experiences (p.
In relation to in-course experiences, Welch (1995) claimed that negative experiences in teacher education courses may negatively affect the confidence of preservice teachers to teach art, and Hudsons study (2005) indicated that university-based courses can positively influence preservice teachers confidence in teaching art.
It also investigates if there are differences in background and confidence between the students who have completed an undergraduate degree prior to their teacher education course and those who have entered teacher education course as Russell-Bowie Australian Journal of Music Education 79 undergraduate students.
This is a follow-up to the original study and sought to compare differences in students responses over the years.
Table 1 indicates that there were more females (92%) than males (8%) as is usually the situation in primary teacher education courses.
Survey Instrument The instrument for this current study covered all four strands of the Creative Arts (music, dance, drama and visual arts) and was administered to the students in a mass lecture at the start of their creative arts unit.
Apart from the demographic questions, each of the other questions had one stem with four endings, and each of the endings related either to music, visual arts, dance or drama.
This paper reports on those items related specifically to students and their perceptions in relation to music.
Correlations between the selected questions were computed and results indicated that several were significant at the level of 0.01 level (see Table 2).
Are there differences between the responses from the undergraduate students in the original study and those of postgraduate students in the current study to the music-related questions?
When the responses from this study were compared with those previous responses in relation to confidence in music teaching, 69% in 1998 had taught successful music lessons compared with 14% in 2008, 53% of students Russell-Bowie Australian Journal of Music Education 81 Table 2: Correlations between responses to the questions of background and confidence in teaching music.
(2-tailed) N -.334** .000 133 1 135 I can play a musical instrument well I feel confident about teaching music lessons I can play a musical instrument well 1.93 1.26 138 Pearson Correlation Sig.
The responses of the two groups to the question relating to their feeling positive about teaching music were similar, although the first group was still higher than the second group (1998: 53%; 2008: 48%).
Based on these results, the challenge to music educators is to make their music education courses challenging and meaningful to this 25% of students as well as to the 75% who do not perceive they have a strong background in music.
The lower results from the second survey could indicate that children and young people generally are increasingly not interested in learning, or do not have the opportunity to learn a musical instrument or music theory either in school or outside the school environment.
Both groups of students were surveyed at the start of their first (and only) creative arts unit and most had been expected to teach music and other creative arts lessons in their course, prior to enrolling in this unit.
On their four week in-schools Practicum they may have selected instead to teach visual arts, dance or drama lessons instead of music lessons, or they may have taught music lessons but not considered them to have been successful.
The students responses as to whether or not they were confident teaching music lessons seems to reflect their experience in teaching successful music lessons as Lazar (2007) also indicates.
Of the first group, 69% had taught successful music lessons and 50% of them felt confident about teaching music lessons, compared with 14% of the second group responding that they had taught successful music lessons and 21% of them feeling confident Primary teachers background and confidence 84 2010, No. 2 teaching music lessons.
Further research also needs to be conducted to identify students perceptions of a successful music lesson.
However, despite their seeming lack of confidence in teaching music lessons (2008: 21%), their lack of experience in teaching successful music lessons, and their perceived lack of an adequate background in formal music, 48% of the second group responded that they felt positive about teaching music.
Student teachers enter their training institution with attitudes to music that they have developed over their lifetime.
References Ardzejewska, K. (2006).
Whos teaching PE/Sport in NSW primary schools?
The specialist teacher: A case study.
Sydney: ASME/ ACE.
Research Studies in Music Education, 26, 37-50.
Coopersmith, S. (1984).
Department of Education, Science and Training (DEST).
(2005).
Augmenting the diminished: National review of school music education.
Report of the ministerial taskforce of enquiry into music education in primary schools.
Kim, Y. Y. (2001).
Training non-specialists in early childhood music education of Korea.
A metacognitive model of the developmental processes of professional knowledge of student teachers.
The report of the committee evaluating the primary school music curriculum.
Where in the world are we?
Russell-Bowie, D., Roche, L. & Marsh, H. (1995).
Wow!
Music education.
In W. Bebbington (Ed.) The Oxford companion to Australian music, Oxford University Press, Melbourne, pp.
Temmerman, N. (1997).
The efficacy of primary teachers in art education.
