However, the creative arts, in the real world of time and teaching are generally speaking, lower in priority.
As Russell-Bowie (2009, p. 5) reflects, the arts can embody and communicate emotions, ideas, beliefs and values It can convey meaning through aesthetic forms and symbols and evoke emotive responses to life with or without words.
However, the creative arts, in the real world of time and teaching are generally speaking, lower in priority.
Schools have admitted it is difficult to have consistency and regularity in the arts curriculum, because of the time constraints and the lower educational priority given to the subject area in the curriculum (Alter, Hayes & OHara, 2009).
Eisner (1994, p. 17 cited in Alter, Hayes & OHara, 2009) comment that we are expecting generalist primary teachers to teach what they do not know and often do not love.
Teachers do question, their ability to recognise a childs potential in music if their own understanding and personal confidence levels of music is limited (Alexander, 1994).
In the same way, teachers should also learn about music and the teaching of singing, and then through that knowledge and practising of these learnt skills, achieve those musical competencies (Smith, 2006).
Subsequently, within that learning will come recognition of understanding of other developmental processes that may occur.
b.
This equates to almost one-third of the school population being involved in the choir.
Investigation of the material used each week for this choir repertoire consisted of musical tracks taken from the Australian Broadcasting Commission (ABC) Sing books.
The words and occasionally the music were generally placed into a booklet or on an interactive whiteboard and each week added to when new songs were introduced.
Video and interview data was analysed employing inductive, qualitative procedures and exploratory study was undertaken with three participants.
To teach music properly you need to have had a formal music education, we just do singing.
The children highly enjoy singing and this was the main motivation for our choir work.
At times, harder songs in various degrees of difficulty were selected to further develop the senior students in the group, (N=39) and more simple songs utilised for the younger grades.
They felt repetition, echo singing and use of movement hand signs for showing the levels of pitch in the song assisted in the students understanding of where and what the music was doing.
From the video data, it was observed the teachers ensured through their own physical demonstration that changes in bodily concepts such as jaws strutting out, or their necks stretched up when singing high were not employed.
Through the video data this was shown to be reinforced each lesson.
(Teacher three) Duration concepts such as longer notes for example, understanding about semibreves, tied notes, shorter notes, were also visually seen and reinforced by the teachers ,when they were following the music on the screen.
From the data viewed and collected, the children appeared to understand what duration concepts they were singing.
Musical rests were an integral part of their learning to read the music and it was introduced as to simply have a rest.
We wanted to do these because we felt they were all great opportunities to further develop their listening skills as they sang two different songs against each other and children were very keen to sing these, and then presented them all as part of an assembly performance.
In respect to the teachers own perceptions or further understandings of techniques and skills undertaken with the students in these sessions, they all commented upon the children as a whole.
They really worked well as a team, we had the obvious behaviour problems but when it came to learning particular bits, and as far as singing, they combined together and performed as a whole group.
I knew I could try and when the other two said that they would also do the choir with me, I thought okay...lets sing and have a good time.
(Teacher 2) I know more about music now than I did at the beginning of the year, but I still have got so much to learn.
The respondents commented upon the use of warm up chants and rhythms they used and how this was also seen in use within the classroom.
In a child centred curriculum, the choice of song and how it can be utilised is important.
Group collegiality was deemed as a hidden benefit of this group interaction, for both teachers and students.
Group activities assist with sharpening members communication skills as well as enhancing their cognitive skills (Petress, 2004).
The children and teachers in this weekly setting, all valued that they were equally as important as each other and allowed themselves to enter the arena where teamwork was demanded.
Unfortunately teachers seldom regularly integrate musical concepts, or regard them as being on the same level of importance as other subjects (Baker & Saunders, 1994; Bresler, 1993; Giles & Frego, 2004; Propst, 2003; Whitaker, 1996; Seddon & Biasutti, 2008).
The children Though uniquely different in appearance and method from each other, creative arts disciplines do employ cognitive processes, allowing language and thought to be expressed through varied representations.
They do not need to have years of experience to sing proficiently to integrate music and develop musical skills in their school.
By using the notion of singing in a classroom, or through a primary school augmentation of choir, musical concepts and skill development is evident.
References Ainscow, M. (2000).
Teacher efficacy: A motivational paradigm for effective teacher education.
Bariseri, N. (2000).
In-service classroom teachers perceptions of useful music skills and understandings.
Arts Education Policy Review, 96(5), 31-37.
Brown, K. J. (2000).
Research in Education, November.
(2005).
Childrens rhymes and literacy learning: Making connections.
British Journal of Music Education, 10(1), 33-46.
Jeanneret, N. (1997).
Retrieved 8 May 2010 from http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3673/is_4_124/ ai_n29117805/ Poulou, M. (2007).
Reimer, B. (1989).
