Key words: primary school music education; educational quality; rural and remote schools; specialist and generalist teachers.
It emphasised that there are some fine examples of school music programmes (DEST, 2005, p. 104), with the main factors behind the success of music programmes within schools being the dedication, enthusiasm and expertise of music teachers, the practical and enjoyable nature of the teaching programmes, the support of school a u s t r a l i a n s o c i e t y f o r m u s i c e d u c a t i o n i n c o r p o r a t e d a s m e Australian Journal of Music Education 9 principals and school executives, and endorsement of school music programmes by parents and the wider community (DEST, 2005, p. xii).
According to the Report, curriculum integration compounded this problem.
Particular disparities were associated with geographic location, and especially with rural and provincial schools: geography and the tyranny of distance hinder staffing and teaching of music in many rural and remote schools.
The official, professional and academic literature is replete with complementary findings and perhaps Primary school music education 0 2009, No. 1 comprise some of the endless hand wringing described by Jeanneret (2006, p. 93) in an earlier issue of this journal.
The submission claims: In many school systems, there is no coherent provision of music education to children in the crucial primary school years.
McPherson (1997, p. 174) observed, especially within primary schools, that general teachers without specialist training in music find it difficult to plan, record and assess music.
It is primarily the role of governments to address such inequities (Letts, Elhay & Lierse, 2005, p. 2).
The research behind the assessment replicated, within this selection of primary schools and in a necessarily limited fashion, some of the investigative techniques of the Review itself.
The common regional context produced some similarities across the six schools in terms of local social and economic context and in terms of a common distance from metropolitan centres.
Three of the schools are located in South Australia and are therefore under the jurisdiction of the SA Department of Education and Childrens Services and the SA Curriculum Standards and Accountability Framework.
This array provided an opportunity to assess the effect of State-specific influences.
The room was also sometimes used for other purposes.
The School, the Principal explained, had adopted a multi-arts sort of approach.
The Principal of Riverdale Primary School had clearly worked hard to build a team approach to the delivery of an integrated arts program and has coached the teaching staff accordingly.
(Teacher) Casuarina Primary School had committed a great deal of effort to setting up a music suite, providing musical instruments and equipping all the computers with music software.
There was a common engagement with the concept of music even if there was only a minority of students accessing the more formal learning.
This included an emphasis, where possible, on transporting the students to engagements out of Mt Gambier.
While Casuarina had a generous space for its music room, the interviewees had a sense of vulnerability with regard to this allocation.
[The Department] works out so many metres per student floor space and then thats the amount thats your allowance for how many rooms you can use in the school, that the Department will pay to be cleaned.
(Principal) Primary school music education  2009, No. 1 It was not just a matter of space: We might have space we can use like our activity room but the acoustics are terrible.
Its impossible to teach without this (Teacher).
And that was a compulsory thing whereas now.
Students were also encouraged to operate peer-support learning across classes.
On the downside, the Principal acknowledged that the School did not have a dedicated music room: It would be lovely to have a music room.
The Principal emphasised that none of the additional equipment could have been acquired without the creative use of the grant money that the school had received.
The Principal explained that the school worked with a restricted global budget and needed to carefully watch its expenditure.
Beyond this, was there adequate equipment available to achieve the type of experiences that the school seeks for the students?
We plan ahead.
At the time of interview (with some uncertainty as to future arrangements) the school had a music specialist who came in for one day per week, taking each of the six classes for half an hour of music instruction/enjoyment (which includes recorder lessons for students in Year 3 upwards).
There appeared to be a very well intended but haphazard approach to the purchase of music instruments and equipment rather than being reflective of a coherent program put in place by a dedicated specialist.
If youre going to go into a music program you need all these other facilities if not it does make it tough.
The students also need encouragement Hardcastle Australian Journal of Music Education  as well as support at home.
If you had to choose between a more academic area like Science - and Music it would be hard.
Within the arts area, again, choosing a particular focus is difficult.
In many cases, only a minority of students within the school had access to both theoretical and practical music learning.
In general, however, the efforts being made, especially with the adaptation and flexibility shown, are impressive.
The space issue was universally appreciated: schools that somehow had managed to create a special music space treasured it (like the music rooms at Casuarina and Forestville) while those without such a space (such as Meadow Vale) sensed its absence.
The perceived squeeze on in music (Casuarina) imposed by State-level budget constraints was a common observation.
This would not preclude a role in music education for those generalist teachers who were competent and enthusiastic enough to also make a positive contribution (Each school would love to have the resource of at least one person on staff thats got a good music background [Meadow Vale]) but specialist teaching and advice was definitely ideal.
And in every interview there was reference to a strong interest in professional development (I absolutely lap workshops up [Casuarina]) and to the lamentable lack of ongoing, accessible opportunities in relation to music teaching (Theres nothing [ or] its usually in Adelaide from 4-6 pm in the middle of the week [Meadow Vale]).
On the locational issue, it is easy to be led by the surroundings and the ambience into concluding that there is a lot in common between the two urban schools in contrast to the four other schools in more open, country settings.
In summary, the main findings are: that the ubiquitous emphasis on an integrated curriculum necessarily means that music education must fit in with, and to some extent compete with, other priorities; that the quality of the music education as delivered varies considerably across and within these schools; that while there are instances of interesting and imaginative efforts to provide primary- school students with worthwhile musical experiences and learning opportunities, there is little evidence of the systematic and sequential delivery of a coherent curriculum as envisaged by the National Review; that the deficiencies are not principally due to insufficient awareness or enthusiasm at the local school level; rather they arise from a high turnover of staff in short-term or fractional music teacher positions, from inadequate physical space arrangements within most (but not all of ) the schools, and from other resourcing limitations; that there is general agreement among Principals and teachers about the desirability of employing full-time specialist music teachers, but this is difficult to implement in these schools; that because the delivery of music education is dependent in practice on generalist teachers having sufficient confidence, expertise and enthusiasm, the most sensible way forward is to support these teachers with sufficient training, resources and curriculum guidance within a school program coordinated by a music specialist; that currently there is insufficient pre-service training or ongoing support through in- service professional development available to assist generalist teachers to acquire and improve their music-education proficiency; that State-level influences do not seem particularly significant in explaining local primary school practices in relation to music education, while any urban/rural differences are probably better explained as reflecting the socio-economic background of the school students.
Curtin, ACT: ACSSO.
National Review of School Music Education: Augmenting the diminished.
Fairbairn, R., Leehy, M., & OMara, K. (2005).
Researching research into primary music education.
Music Forum, 9(5), 32-36.
