Until now, the problem has been researched from a confidence perspective.
Responses were analysed and categorised with a positive or negative valence.
In Australia few studies have explored generalist teachers from the perspective of self-efficacy, especially in Queensland where this study was conducted.
Bandura (1997) notes that people with high self-efficacy choose to perform more challenging tasks.
Alternatively, low efficacy beliefs are easily negated by disconfirming experiences that may cause anxiety, depression and helplessness within the specific context.
Russell-Bowie and Dowsons (2005) study of 936 generalist primary teachers across five countries found that most had very little formal background in any of the art forms, and that in every creative arts area, background is very strongly, and positively, predictive of confidence and enjoyment in teaching, regardless of gender (p.
High emotional arousal may also be created by observing failure in a similar situation, or from negative verbal persuasion.
The study There is limited research that investigates the relationship between past experiences and the efficacy of generalist arts teachers in Queensland, Australia.
In this study the middle years is defined as grades four to nine.
Moreover, the item recalled acts as a cue for the next item in the ordered list (Foddy, 1993).
Seven selected past experiences were recalled for each respondent: their childhood; as a teenager; as a young adult; during pre-service teacher courses; during practical experience as a pre-service teacher, as a new teacher within the first months of being employed; and finally, as a beginning teacher with less than three years experience.
The seven stages were selected as they are significant developmental stages and times of transition for self-efficacy beliefs and are likely to serve as filters at key times of change.
Respondents were advised that on return of their questionnaire, all information would immediately be de-identified.
Positive and negative response were then analysed using content analysis.
In schools that do not have a music specialist, music is considered the responsibility of the generalist teacher.
Experiences during the teenage years (when self-esteem was developing) and pre-service teacher education seemed to hold the strongest emotional arousal for beginning teachers not to engage with the arts.
Good memories and feelings towards the arts as a child.
Nothing negative ever came from art in this time of my life.
(Respondent, 17) I cannot recall having many experiences in drama, and occasionally we did an art project at school.
It was an if we have time activity.
Teenager During the teenage years, respondents reported more negative experiences (54%) of the arts than positive (46%), a shift from their childhood experiences which were mostly positive (86%).
I also taught drama at the local dance school.
I enjoy expressing myself through colours and imagery rather than through words (Respondent, 64).
For example: I moved away from the arts as I did not study any of those subjects and they didnt pertain to my life or job.
Arts courses were considered to be too theorised.
(Respondent, 132) I undertook one unit at university intro to literature and drama.
We seemed to learn little theory or understanding of components of theatre.
My best learning experiences in this course were tutorial based whereby each group would get to teach the rest of the group a lesson in the arts (Respondent, 24).
(Respondent, 11) I only saw a focus towards maths and English, especially before the national exams.
(Respondent, 146) Nevertheless, 37% of beginning teachers described scenarios with a positive valence while on professional practical experience.
I had many opportunities to teach the arts on prac.
But I found the teacher aides to be invaluable in assisting me to find suitable activities and resources during my lessons.
(Respondent, 59) Again, the school culture appears to contribute to teachers self-efficacy for the arts.
(Respondent, 22) Due to mandated additional remedial programs at my current school, [there is] very little time for arts (Respondent, 116).
This pattern of past experiences is one of the coalition of factors shaping their sense of efficacy as teachers of arts education (Tschannen-Moran, Woolfolk Hoy & Hoy, 1998).
When these beginning teachers Middle years teachers past experiences 38 2010, No. 2 entered schools, they felt they did not have the confidence or skills to teach the arts and were often exposed to a school culture that did not value the arts.
Some beginning teachers did not study arts as part of their pre-service teacher education.
Subsequently, negativity towards teaching the Arts may lead the beginning teacher to reduce or remove Arts education from their teaching altogether.
Content must first focus on the interests of the pre-service generalist teacher before further knowledge development can occur.
Results from the respondents, who are defined in this case as beginning generalist teachers with no more than 3 years teaching experience, reveal influences from past experiences in teaching the arts towards their current teacher self-efficacy.
This hypothesis however, requires further investigation.
Andrews, B. W. (2006).
(2003).
Bandura, A. (1997).
Connecticut: Information Age Publishing.
Henson, R.K.
(2005).
She recently completed her PhD exploring teacher self-efficacy for the Arts.
