Past research suggests a wide variety in the modes of music instruction and the types of music programs offered for students (Shand, 1982a, 1982b; Cooper, 1989; Montgomery, 1990).
In this national survey, results from two provinces, Quebec and Newfoundland, were found to be too small to provide statistically viable data.
The Purpose The purpose of the study was to collect statistical information about music education in Ontario and the teaching of music in Ontario schools.
Methodology/Procedures: Initial letters were mailed to principals of all elementary and secondary public, catholic and private schools in Ontario.
Missing data in various categories accounts for discrepancies in frequencies reported and will be discussed later.
Data analysis was conducted using SPSS version 10 and manual content analysis using analytic induction to determine the thematic foci of the respondents comments (Goetz & LeCompte, 1984, p. 179-182.
Geographical representation of respondents was somewhat consistent with general population density in the province: 17% were from eastern Ontario, 30% from central Ontario, 15% from Toronto and area, 25% from southwestern Ontario and 7% from northern Ontario.
Other teachers taught in larger schools of 500-749 pupils (27.5%) or in somewhat smaller schools 100-249 (16%).
Of the subjects involved in this study, 80.5 % taught in public schools, 13.6 % in catholic schools, 2.8% in private schools and only 0.3% taught in schools specializing in music/arts education.
There were 13.2% of respondents with an honour specialist in music.
Instruction of music in schools was carried out by certified teachers in 76.2 % of respondents.
40.4% of respondents noted that music instructional time amounted to less than one hour per week.
For involving themselves in extra-curricular activities only 5.1% of respondents received time in lieu or some other benefit from school administrators for taking on this extra assignment.
Regarding the availability of private music teachers in their school community, 37.7% of respondents believed that there were sufficient private music teachers.
About 50% perceived that music education took an unimportant role in their school board (relatively unimportant- 39.7%, unimportant 11%) while about 49% perceived that music was important in their school board (important 12.1%, relatively important 37.2%).
One classroom teacher in southwestern Ontario [186] recounted: I am dismayed by the relative unimportance with which the Board and Provincial Government regard music.
On the one hand, there has been a tremendous increase in the curriculum expectations, yet nowhere near the corresponding increase in funding or teacher training that there should be.
Although almost 40% of respondents described their school music program negatively from fair (23.5%) to poor (9.8%) to very poor (5.3%).
A principal/vice principal from northern Ontario [108] noted: We are basically left on our own as teachers and principals to implement the Ontario Curriculum within our schools.
5% did not assess music learning at all!
Over half (53.3%) of teachers reported that facilities for teaching music were inadequate.
I am not allowed to use drums because there is no soundproofing in my room and the sound of the band classes booms through the main floor of the school, disturbing other classes.
51.8% of respondents noted that there were not adequate offerings of live performances by symphonies, choirs, bands, etc. in their school.
Obviously, one key to a strong music program comes from the support of the principal.
For an administrator, this is a huge undertaking, but I feel very strongly that children need to have music and perform it!
The provincial government and our school board should be focusing more on the Arts and the value (they) have for children in the long run.
Music and visual arts are two things that can remain with a person for the rest of their lives.
The results suggested that 66.2% of respondents felt that there was parental support for the music program while 45.5% felt that there was support for music education from the community at large.
Almost 60% of all respondents reported the inadequacy of funds for their elementary music program.
Only 719.2% reported annual funding from school boards with another 48.8% noting funding from the school.
About one fifth (20.9%) of the respondents are dependent upon fundraising to purchase music instruments/materials.
An astounding 27.5% of respondents receive no funding for their music program in their classroom or school.
While 37.3% have an annual and ongoing music budget, 36.9% have a budget that is unknown and at the discretion of the administrator.
XLIV No. 1 of The Recorder.
Ethnography and qualitative design in educational research.
8Shand, P. M. (1982a).
Music education in Canada Part I: The status of music education in Canada.
Canadian Music Educator, 23(3), 18-30.
Canadian Music Educator, 24(1), 29-34.
M.Ed., research assistant, who assisted with data collection, content and statistical analysis and Rahul Kumar for web design and data management.
Dr. Rodger J. Beatty is Associate Professor, Music Education in the Preservice Department, Faculty of Education, Brock University.
Rodger is Co-Editor of The Recorder and a member of the Board of Directors of the Ontario Music Educators Association (OMEA) . He is the OMEA representative on the Board of Directors of the Canadian Music Industry Education Committee and is President of Choirs Ontario.
