The debate continues concerning which curriculum theory, or organizing pattern, best fits technology education (Zuga, 1989; Herschbach, 1992).
While there are many examples of successful technology education programs that are grounded in the separate subject approach, it may take decades for technology education to gain acceptance as a new academic discipline, if it is _____________________ Thomas Erekson (TL-Erekson@wiu.edu) is Dean, College of Business and Technology at Western Illinois University, Macomb.
(pp.
(p.
Technology, being ubiquitous, offers a robust opportunity for connections with all areas of study in the schools.
(p.
52).
18 No. 1, Fall 2006 -29- We have long known that making connections between and among the disciplines provides the setting for increased understanding, retention, and application . . (Palmer, 1995, p. 55) Models for Curriculum Integration An array of models for curriculum integration have been developed and tried.
(p.
For example, Maley (1989) worked with teams of math, science, and technology teachers in curriculum development that coincides with the simultaneous model.
William A. Wulf, president of the National Academy of Engineering (NAE), was an active participant in the development of the standards.
That is, were they principally to provide a framework for improving and expanding the reach of formal technology education courses, or were they instead to provide a vision for incorporating the study of technology across the curriculum?
(Wulf, 2000, p. 12) Barriers to Curriculum Integration If curriculum integration and interdisciplinary efforts have the potential to dramatically improve education, why has implementation lagged?
Loepp (1991) identifies several barriers to curriculum integration.
Turfism runs rampant throughout the educational enterprise.
Can a full integration model be developed that addresses and overcomes these barriers?
(p.
127) Journal of Technology Education Vol.
The notion that special education teachers should provide consultation to regular teachers became popularized in the 1970s and 1980s.
Consultation in Technology Education Can, or should, technology education implement a special education-like model of integration that utilizes the concept of collaborative consultation and resource rooms?
58).
Welty (1989) noted how this might work: . . . since technology touches almost every aspect of life, it can be used to bridge the gap between abstract concepts and concrete life-experiences.
(p.
12) Journal of Technology Education Vol.
18 No. 1, Fall 2006 -33- Collaborative consulting technology teachers can make a major impact by helping regular teachers integrate technology into the context of the disciplines.
This approach would be similar to the way specialist teachers are used in elementary schools.
(p.
With supportive consulting by the technology teacher, feelings of inadequacy that regular teachers may have when asked to enhance the curriculum with technology education can be negated.
These teachers would bring classes of 7th or 8th graders to the communications technology lab for instruction in English or math with learning activities that made use of the technological devices in the lab.
The technology teacher used his 9th grade communication technology students as peer teachers and teachers aides in supporting the math and English instructional hands on activities.
Collaborative Consulting Technology Teachers Glen (1994) noted that collaborative consulting special education teachers have more responsibility than regular teachers and that effective consulting teachers have developed specific skills in consultation.
The competencies and roles of the technology teacher will be similar to those described by Stadt and Kenneke (1970) in their monograph, Teacher Competencies for the Cybernated Age.
He further delineated the future roles for technology teachers as: Journal of Technology Education Vol.
(p.
Will the collaborative consulting technology teacher model as presented herein actually be implemented in the public schools?
It must be noted that special education is implemented in public schools because of state and federal laws, and court decisions, which mandate a free, appropriate education for all individuals with disabilities in the least restrictive environment, the regular classroom where practicable (Hallahan & Kaufman, 1997).
In some states federal Perkins funds for career and technical education are used to improve (fund) technology education programs, and most of the technology education state supervisors are housed in the career and technical education units.
The risks and demands will be considerable.
(p.
In Martin, G. E. (ed) Technology education for the 21st century.
Boston: Allyn and Bacon.
Herschbach, D. A. (1996).
Loepp, F. (1991).
Science, mathematics, and technology education.
Maley, D. A. (1989).
The central project model: A practical approach to interdisciplinary education.
Proceedings: Symposium XI: Technology Education An Interdisciplinary Endeavor.
Technically speaking: Why all Americans need to know more about technology.
Stadt, R. W., and Kenneke, L. J. (1970).
Proceedings: Symposium XI: Technology Education An Interdisciplinary Endeavor.
(Doctoral dissertation, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1990), Dissertation Abstracts International, 51(05).
46th Yearbook, Council on Technology Teacher Education, Peoria, IL: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
The Technology Teacher, 59(6), 10-12.
