The two institutional settings, located opposite each other on the same street, serve as an illustration of the co- existing models of teaching that exist in most multicultural societies: the formal setting, publically financed, and the non- formal setting, typically operated by vol- unteers, who are enthusiasts.
An evaluation made by the Swedish Na- tional Agency for Higher Education (Hg- skoleverket, 2007) determined that few universities can show visible results.
What do we know about the music schools outside the academies and the municipal music schools?
Demands placed on music educators The accessibility, kinds and functions of music education in multicultural schools and societies are discussed all over the world.
In addition to projects like these, aimed at promoting culturally healthy societies, a large number of music projects have been initiated with the clear purpose of inte- grating minority groups into multicultur- al societies.
Communication between formal and non-formal settings As formal settings are publically funded, they should also serve the entire commu- nity.
There are other ways of describing this dichotomy.
106) The present study represents an effort to achieve such a communication.
Music educa- 48 FJME 2010 / vol.
But, as Szego (2002) argues, while music education often has disregarded the issue of ethnocentrism in both choice of re- search questions and methods, ethnomu- sicology has often omitted questions of musical transmission.
Szego also points out another differ- ence between the two paradigms: While the ethnomusicologist seeks the thick description and to globalize local con- cepts with the aim of understanding prac- tices, the music educator more often has the aim of rethinking or changing practic- es.
Individuals working within the structure of trans- mission systems are certainly guided by those structures, but learners also exercise agency by manipulating them to their own ends and needs.
Cultural diversity in music education is basically a question of relationships between people.
Learning from, on the other hand, im- plies an awareness that: we cannot understand, we cannot assimilate, the process of learning needs to be part of a relation before it can start, there is a risk of loosing ones own epistemological security when meeting the Other, there must be an open mind, expressed in passivity, or a more humble attitude.
His concept cosmopolitan- ism combines the universal concern for all humanity with a respect for legitimate difference.
Music constructs our identity by the experiences it offers, including body, time and community.
It has defined 50 FJME 2010 / vol.
These lessons also served as a prerequisite for conversations and interviews, two overlapping activities.
An ethnographer is someone who creates an expression of what a cul- ture is.
The only way of overcoming that irony is to recognise the complexity and try to be aware of it during the research process, from planning to collecting data and writing the report.
Do you play in other contexts?
Four students joined the school in the middle of the semester, they were taught as a group and I also interviewed them as a group.
Results This section begins with some short quo- tations from the field notes, with the aim of introducing the atmosphere at the Ira- nian-Swedish music school.
Siroos, the teacher, says welcome and continues to one of the other students.
To her the school is everything, it has given her a new life: I used to be isolat- ed, now I know everyone.
Neli, the youngest student, is at the school because of her mother: My mother knew the teacher and wanted me to start.
Neli has strong family support.
Neli likes playing music, but pre- fers listening to English or Swedish mu- sic, and is also planning to learn the piano and the guitar.
I thought that one day, one day I will play that myself.
This does not bother him.
It would have been good if they could share my experiencebut they ex- perience other things [laughs] (Aria).
She just thinks it is fun to play santur, and she is planning to continue until she knows it well, but also wants to play other instruments, and oth- er genres.
Most of the stu- dents tend to use the time to practice and play, in a concentrated but relaxed way.
Sometimes he just plays and the students learn by heart, and sometimes he gives them the printed music, but not all the students know how to read music.
The devotion to music, expressed un- der other categories as well, is also clear when the students talk about their own learning process.
YouTube and Google are his natural tools for expanding his rep- ertoire.
He seems to spend many hours there: Yes, in fact, many hours.
(From the group interview) Some of the older members said that they miss their home country, and that being at the music school is a way of cop- ing with that longing.
Davood and Pari did not want to talk about nostalgia.
Researcher: Oh, a regular recorder?
Confrontations and imaginary homelands As expected, being an outsider in con- temporary Swedish society and at the same time delving deep into the music of ones homeland, creates some tensions.
Neli: Mm.
Researcher: Is that what you have decided?
Discussion For music teachers the whole idea of learning from (Todd, 2008) poses new questions.
Green, L. 2001.
Retrieved from http://www.scb.
se/Pages/PublishingCalendarViewInfo____259923.
Todd, S. 2008.
