In other words, from the educational perspective, school music education should take traditional music inheritance as its basisjust as language acquisition, we first learn dialect, then mandarin Chinese and then foreign language; and it is the same with music learning,and the multinational music culture is expected to be regarded as important resources of music education.
From this point of view, this paper will illustrate the status quo and the perspectives of music education based on cultural diversity in Mainland China.
According to the incomplete statistics in 1980s, there are 394 types of local operas in China, among which Tibet, Bai, Dong, Korean and Manchu ethnic minority groups have their own operas; more than 400 kinds of narrative arts(songs) and each of the 55 ethnic minority groups has its own narrative arts (songs); There are over 600 traditional folk musical instruments and the variety of compositions is rich.
The total number of performances is also decreasing.
In Points of View on Strengthening Chinese Intangible Cultural Heritage Protection by the Office of the Chinese State Council (Qing, 2005), it is pointed out that: .along with the enhancement of globalization, and the sudden economic and social transition, many new situations and problems come to the fore, such as the protection and development of the Chinese intangible cultural heritage, which is faced with critical situations.more and more impact has been imposed on the intangible cultural heritage.
Another investigation shows that according to the questionnaire given to more than 1700 students from Zhuang, Yao, Miao, Dong and other minority ethnic groups in various parts of Guangxi concerning how many students can sing songs of their hometowns, only 3% of Zhuang students, 5% Yao students, 29% Miao students and 31% Dong students could sing songs of their hometowns (Li, 2003).
Chinese contemporary musical historians have thought that school songs had suffered from violently criticizing traditional music and vigorously introducing American and European music (Li, 1997, p. 7).
On April 17th, 2006, the Chinese Brand Research Institute announced the 100 Top Valued Chinese Individual Brand of 2006, naming the pop singer LI Yuchun, who was popularized by Hunan Cable TV in 2005, the Super Girl of American Pop singers.
3, Systematic causes For a long time, Chinas traditional music inheritance has been carried out by artistic organizations, professional traditional music institutions and non- governmental music organizations, and supported by the cultural sector at various levels.
.Introspection and exploration Since 1980s, Chinese scholars (including musical scholars and music educators) and educational administrators have begun reflecting on the status quo of the cultural diversity of music in music education, as well as making series of reform measures to promote music education based on musical diversity.
1, Introspection on School-based Musical Education since the 20th Century (1).
Propose to Overcome the Negative Impact of Euro-Centric Theory and Call for School-based Educations Attention to Traditional Music Inheritance In February 1993, at the Seminar on Thoughts of the National Music Community of the 20th Century jointly hosted by The Chinese University of Hong Kong and Hong Kong Ethnomusicology Society, delegates reviewed both positive and negative impact of introduction of western music educational system at the beginning of this century since 1980s.
Scholars pointed out that the practice that school-educated students with European music theories ignored in-depth discussion and re-establishment of Chinese musical system, fostered ideas of unduly belittling oneself and having blind faith in things foreign, and did harm to the spread and development of Chinese excellent traditional musical culture.
(2).
Some experts continue to discuss the nature and significance of music education with Chinese culture as the mother tongue, believing that establishing music education with Chinese culture as mother tongue must also absorb the diversified musical cultures of all nationalities in the world and that there is no contradiction but internal unity between emphasizing musical tradition as important resources of local cultures and emphasizing musical diversity across the world.
With further consideration of inheritance of traditional music in school, scholars are paying more and more attention to diversified features of Chinese music and its characteristics of multiple ethnic groups and multiple territories.
On the meeting, delegates also discussed teacher training and solutions, proposed that each student can sing songs of his/her hometowns, directly expounded the connotations of traditional music, and further discussed importance, far-reaching significance and practical strategies of protecting diversity of Chinese traditional musical culture.
With the Introspections on school-based music education going deep, MOE issued Music Curriculum Standards (Experimental Draft) for the full-time compulsory education in 2001.
(2).
All these efforts have achieved good results and accumulated some successful experience for traditional music inheritance.
Pu Hong, a teacher in Guizhou Province, introduces Dage of Dong Ethnic Group into classrooms of primary and middle schools, which are welcomed by students.
For instance, in the 4th National Competition of Music Lesson in Primary and Middle School, many outstanding instructional demonstrations are filled with vivid musical contents of various regions and ethnic groups.
The success of the practice in Quanzhou City is to combine the government, organizations, schools and research institutes into one, integrating school-based inheritance of traditional music with reestablishment of local traditional musical culture.
From the whole country we can see the situation of traditional music instruction is not satisfactory, particularly in terms of local textbooks extension.
Teachers general reaction is that they are not familiar with local traditional music, nor do they like it, so the goal local textbooks account for 20% of the total instruction in the syllabus is far from being achieved.
These phenomena reflect the weakness of traditional music education in training of teachers and loss of course resources, and also highlight importance of training of teachers and resources building.
Grasp the Critical LinkTraining of Teachers Many normal universities and colleges as well as music & arts colleges have realized that the critical point for whether traditional music inheritance is successful or not lies on cultivation of teachers contingency with traditional musical quality.
Some normal universities and colleges even have started exploring local traditional music teacher training.
Therefore, start of relevant research as well as its achievements provides theoretic support for practical exploration of traditional music inheritance and serves guiding significance.
And facts have proven that, in all such schools that have made this endeavor, students understanding and love for traditional music have increased.
Chinese Government is highly committed to the current situation of traditional music culture.
Just as the Chinese Government points out in Papers and Opinions on Intensifying Intangible Cultural Heritage Protection Work: We must hold responsibility for our nations and generations to come and try our best to do this long-term and arduous work of intangible cultural heritage protection.
In order to set up school-based music education aimed at traditional music inheritance, we need to solve the problem of mutual basis between school-based music education and musical culture inheritance, that is, inheritance of traditional musical culture should be based on school music education and the latter is also on the basis of the former.
Through explorations in recent years, now we can say that it is a sacred task assigned to Chinas school-based music education in the new times to regard traditional music culture as important resources of music education, to be based on local traditional music (just as language acquisition, we first learn dialect, then standard language and then foreign; that is also the case with music learning), to help students really get the most precious gift local culture presents each of our members(Bennett Reimer 1998, and to become people of new generation with self cultural quality.
Therefore, we should focus on the following aspects.
Thus it is crucial to adopt traditional teaching concepts and methods and introduce traditional music accordingly.
(4) Systematic problems The inheritance of traditional music culture needs the support not only from school-based music education, but also the one outside school.
Beijing: Peoples Literature and Art Publisher Fang Nan Tan Li2007Seeking Hometown Music Discussing Localization Effort of National Middle- school Music Teaching Material in Anhui District The 6th Asia-Pacific Symposium on Music Education Research ISME Asia-Pacific regional Conference-2007 Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok Thailand Hu J. H. (2003, December 23).
Beijing: China Conservatory.
Contemporary Chinese Music.
(2007) Research on the comparison of the Analects of Confucius with the Music Curriculum Standard The 6th Asia-Pacific Symposium on Music Education Research ISME Asia-Pacific regional Conference-2007 Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok Thailand Lv, J. (2003, January 1).
Imbedded in youth times: College students and pop music Ministry of Education (MOE).
Beijing: Peoples Education Press.
Beijing: Peoples Education Press.
Hong Kong: The Hong Kong Institute of Education.
Music Research Xie, J. X. (2000).
Chinese Music, 1, 35-39.
Zhang, T. T. (2003).
