Frank Battisti, former conductor of the New England Conservatory wind ensemble, also contacted me, thanking me for having the courage to speak out on this very important issue.
I wasn't sure what he meant by courage, but I soon found out.
But what struck me the most was the intensity of feeling.
With very few exceptions, whether they agreed or not, those who wrote poured out their hearts.
They wrote long, intelligent, impassioned, well-thought-out arguments.
Many said I had put my finger on an issue that troubled them deeply, and were grateful for having it raised by an outsider.
I was bothered by the poor quality of the repertoire in my children's band and chorus programs.
I soon found out many others were bothered by this, tooand even more so by the forces that lay behind this unhappy trend in school music.
Professor Phillip Hash of Calvin College in Grand Rapids, Mich., sent an interesting sample list of pieces that bands even at the lower levels can play and which included many non-simplified arrangements of classical works, from the Renaissance to the 20th century.
Other teachers told me how their frustrations with the meager offerings of real music from the educational music publishers had led them to make their own arrangements of classics, marches, Civil War songs, folk music.
In fact we can have our cake and eat it toowe can give our kids great music that also meets classroom needs.
I think that's actually easier than they suggest.
The worst aspect of the current state of school music is, I believe, that it is such a closed world.
We have kids performing pieces that are not tied to anything in any part of the real music world.
We can all debate endlessly the philosophical question of what constitutes great art.
None of these pieces could find an audience anywhere outside the captive market of the school curriculum.
Ed Quick, director of bands at the Detroit High School of Arts, observed that the new band pieces he regularly hears as a judge at festivals all have the same formula: a grand, dramatic opening; then a fast section with lots of percussion activity; next comes the slow, emotionally draining section; then the fast section returns with a slammin ending.
As one of my correspondents (an attorney and former band student, Christopher Wist) wrote amusingly but with devastating accuracy, I am all for honoring Helen Keller, the heroes of 9/11, and the victims of child abuse.
There is great modern music; there is great popular music; there is great non-Western music; there is great music with broad appeal.
We are short-changing our children when we do not give them the opportunity to experience the best real musicclassical, folk songs, jazz, Broadway tunes, rock, spirituals, music that has stirred and moved and inspired people, music that has roots and a history and a substance and a living traditionand instead give them distinctly second-rate substitutes, once or twice removed from the real thing.
Do they really believe that this school music will be played 50 or 100 years from now?
But let's champion the best new music, music that we believe truly has the artistic merit and emotional engagement and integrity that we believe in our hearts and minds makes it great art.
All music is not created equal.
I was touched beyond words by one message I received from an idealistic, 26-year-old elementary school teacher who wrote me of her struggles against the school bureaucracy to be allowed to have her students do real musicAmerican folk songs, Vaughn Williams, Schubert, Copland.
Kids are way smarter than most music publishers believe.
They can tell the difference between high quality music that has stood the test of time, and a song written only for Earth Day or to help the clarinets over the register break.
She quoted the words of Hungarian composer Zoltan Kodaly: only the BEST music is good enough for children.
Amen to that!
Others who wrote and called me lamented the way school music has become (as Frank Byrne, executive director of the Kansas City Symphony pithily put it to me) an athletic event, in which the object is to win medals rather than educate.
I do think we need to look long and hard at the way competitions are distorting the repertoire and the educational mission.
Finally, there's one thought I'm left with from these discussions that stands out above all others.
For most students, the music they play in band or sing in chorus IS their music education and enrichment.
I never remotely had the talent to be a professional musician, but that love of music has never faded.
