Results indicate agreement with many statements of impact from the research literature, but also suggest interesting differences between general, choral, and instrumental music teachers regarding the impacts of school music study.
This paper seeks to present preliminary information from a study designed to aid the music teachers perspective to the discussion of impact.
Other studies refute those claims.
41).
213).
Theoretical Framework Critical Incident Technique.
333).
A recent research initiative entitled Sounds of Learning (SOL) seeks to examine the impacts of music education on K-12 schooling (Hodges, 2005).
The present study was designed to investigate the level of agreement regarding impact between practicing music teachers and the literature cited by the SOL initiative.
Haack (2005) offers Merriams (1964) ten functions of music as potential descriptors for explorations of the impact of music study.
Merriams musical functions include: communication; emotional expression; symbolic representation; aesthetic satisfaction; entertainment; physical response; encouraging conformity to social norms; validating social institutions and religious rituals; contributing to the continuity and stability of culture; and contributing to the integration of society.
Music instruction becomes concrete in the relationship between the activities of the teacher to facilitate learning and the behaviors by which the students show that learning has taken place (Froehlich, 1992, p. 563).
The National Board for Professional Teaching Standards (2004) served as descriptors for a question related to music teacher expertise.
7 Respondents included 51 music teachers from 34 schools from 6 school districts in a northeastern state.
The CIMQ used the Critical Incident Technique (Flanagan, 1954) to investigate teacher responses to descriptions of impact from the literature.
Of these, 37 were White, 7 were African American, 2 were Latino/a, and 1 identified as other.
Teaching levels included early childhood (pre-K - 3, n=2, 3.9%), elementary school (K-5 or K-6, n = 15, 29.4%), jr.
There were no other significant differences between these responses.
Although only a small majority of respondents (51%) indicated that physical response was an important impact of musical study; instrumental music teachers were more likely than other teachers not to choose this response (X 2 =7.449, df=3, p=.059).
Correspondingly, music teachers who did not identify themselves as instrumental music teachers were significantly less likely to attribute the impact of a music class to playing instruments (X 2 =15.552, df=6, p = .016) and instrumental music teachers were significantly more likely to indicate that playing instruments led to the impact of their class (X 2 =11.223, df=3, p = .011).
A majority of all respondents indicated that language learning, math learning, and social studies learning were results of the class they had in mind.
Results, indicate that a majority of teachers identify with most of the teaching standards, including Recognizing and adjusting to individual differences in students, (n=38, 82.6%), Understanding how students develop and learn (n=32, 69.6%), Treating all students equitably (n=26, 56.5%), Appreciating connections between music knowledge and other kinds of knowledge (n=34, 73.9%), Using multiple paths to knowledge (n=31, 67.4%), Using group settings to enhance learning (n=30, 65.2%), and Keeping all students engaged (n=41, 89.1%).
The two NBPTS standards that did not indicate majority agreement include Assessing student progress on a regular basis (n=20, 43.5%) and Focusing on the key concepts and objectives of the lesson (n=17, 37%).
11 Discussion The continued interest in the impacts of music education from educational policy makers (as evidenced by the availability of Federal Title I funds for research and professional development for interdisciplinary arts education), organizations that support performers (such as the National Endowment for the Arts and the Arts Education Partnership) and the music industry (seen in funding initiatives and widespread public relations efforts) indicates widespread public support for the idea that music education impacts schooling in important ways.
Such research often examines the input (facilities, equipment, instructional time, or teacher training) or the outcome (the presence or absence of a particular kind of musical or extra-musical impact) without examining the specific aspects of music teacher practice and music learning that must be in place to support the desired impact.
Research is therefore needed that investigates these issues.
Impact Most respondents indicated agreement with the descriptors of general impact from the literature.
The descriptors that did not receive positive responses include symbolic representation, encouraging conformity to social norms, validating social institutions and rituals, contributing to the continuity and stability of culture, and contributing to the integration of society.
Clearly further exploration of these differences, preferably including observation and interviews with music teachers representing a wide variety of student populations, is needed to clarify these differences.
14 Limitations The survey described in this proposal was a pilot study, administered to a convenience sample of music educators who teach in schools from a particular demographic.
Its results, therefore, may not be entirely representative of the profession.
Not surprisingly, each expert can only access one part of the large animal (trunk, leg, tail, etc.) and thus, in spite of Herculean efforts can provide only a limited description of the beast (p.
The impacts of music education should continue to be addressed by members of the music education profession, as well as by the constituency the profession serves; further, the varied constituencies must create opportunities to come together and share their varied understandings of the beast in question.
Greensboro, NC: Sounds of Learning.
Journal of Education for Business, 80 (2), 86-92.
Can the arts win hearts and minds?
Critical Links: Learning in the Arts and Student Academic and Social Development.
Amherst, MA: Department of Music and Dance, University of Massachusetts.
Hodges, D. & OConnell, D. (2005).
Greensboro, NC: Sounds of Learning.
Greensboro, NC: Sounds of Learning.
Retrieved on October 24, 2005 from http://www.uncg.edu/mus/SoundsOfLearning/UsesFunctions.pdf National Board for Professional Teaching Standards.
(2004).
Retrieved from www.nbpts.org/about/coreprops.cfm#knowdo on August 1, 2006.
Retrieved from http://www.tiu.edu/psychology/Twelker/critical_incident_technique.htm on October 24, 2005.
