About the authors Eva Georgii-Hemming is Reader at the School of Music, rebro University, Sweden.
Her research interests have led to presentations at international conferences in Europe and USA, as well as publications in the journals Music Education Research, British Journal of Music Education, Research Studies in Music Education and Nordic Research in Music Education and in proceedings of RAIME (Research Alliance of Institutes for Music Education) conferences.
She has also presented her research in several national and international conferences.
A significant change due to the most recent teacher education reform is that the academic element, that is to say scholarly subject studies, has been accentuated.
The overall aim of the study was to identify student music teachers opinions on their on-going music teacher education.
The objectives with reforming teacher education were several, the principal one being to form stronger links with research and the academic ethos.
Teachers are expected to broaden their skills in assessing how learning goals are achieved, and to form a picture of school as a living organisation, while collaborating with teachers from other subject areas and deciding with the students how curriculum objectives should be implemented and achieved.
During their education, student music teachers take courses in general education with student teachers studying other subjects.
The second context is the universities partner schools where their school-based in-service Georgii-Hemming	 Eva	 &	 Westvall,	 Maria	 (accepted	 version).	 Teaching	 Music	 in	 Our	 Time.	 Student	 music	 teachers	 reflections	 on	 music	 education,	 teacher	 education	 and	 becoming	 a	 teacher.	 Published	 in:	 Music	 Education	 Research.	 2010,	 vol	 12,	 issue	 3,	 pp.	 353367.	 5 education takes place under the supervision of local music teachers/mentors from compulsory schools.
Furthermore, it could be understood as an expression of an active citizens participation in society.
Fundamentally, democratic values in a society are built on certain ethical principles such as equity, inclusion and justice.
A diversity perspective is also addressed as an important goal, not only as a societal resource.
It also affects what (musical) background students must have if they want to be accepted for higher music education.
2327).
In the first national curriculum, music education was based on music literacy, singing songs in harmony, and the Western history of music.
Music and the curriculum The Swedish government and parliament govern schools and education, including the national curriculum and syllabi, through the Education Act.
Moreover, their ability to listen to music and create their own music should be considered, together with their collaborative skills.
An important feature of the ways in which music education is carried out in Sweden is that there are no specific guidelines that need to be considered, no particular textbooks or fixed music repertoire.
What happens in a music class?
Instead, teachers choices of content and goals were often based on their own individual competences and interests together with their students musical interests and experiences.
The songs used in classroom are predominantly easy pop and rock songs from the 1950s and onwards (Karlsson & Karlsson 2009).
This raises the questions of the role of the teacher, the choice of subject content, and the forms of music-making within music education.
Georgii-Hemming	 Eva	 &	 Westvall,	 Maria	 (accepted	 version).	 Teaching	 Music	 in	 Our	 Time.	 Student	 music	 teachers	 reflections	 on	 music	 education,	 teacher	 education	 and	 becoming	 a	 teacher.	 Published	 in:	 Music	 Education	 Research.	 2010,	 vol	 12,	 issue	 3,	 pp.	 353367.	 12 The focus group interviews took place during the participants music education course as a way for them to get acquainted with focus group discussions as a scholarly method.
It was held important to clarify that the participants opinions and their degree of participation in the conversations would not be measured or graded, but that the researchers interests were in how the conversation progressed and what was said.
At the focus group interviews we researchers acted as facilitators.
In this article the themes are related to the students perceptions of teaching music today and whether, and in which case how, they find that they develop knowledge and skills for that task in the course of their teaching education.
Findings The findings reveal three main areas that are of particular interest.
One participant asked, Is music education really fun for students if they do not realise the purpose of the activities in a class?
The findings illustrate a variance in approach between the different elements of music teacher education.
The student teachers commented on how during their general education studies they had had a great deal of guidance from the university lecturers in transforming the goals of the curriculum into practice.
Georgii-Hemming	 Eva	 &	 Westvall,	 Maria	 (accepted	 version).	 Teaching	 Music	 in	 Our	 Time.	 Student	 music	 teachers	 reflections	 on	 music	 education,	 teacher	 education	 and	 becoming	 a	 teacher.	 Published	 in:	 Music	 Education	 Research.	 2010,	 vol	 12,	 issue	 3,	 pp.	 353367.	 16 Discussion and implications This study discloses some major points that call for further examination.
In this study both positions are apparent within the same group of student teachers.
What is generally defined as a strong master-apprentice orientation has previously been applied in music teacher education, and democratic values related to equal musical participation and active citizenship have not been a major concern.
As a result, their experiences from the interaction and content within their general education studies challenge the student music teachers previously held attitudes towards music and music education.
The study also discloses how the student music teachers own aspirations for teaching music in schools were somewhat contradictory.
Georgii-Hemming	 Eva	 &	 Westvall,	 Maria	 (accepted	 version).	 Teaching	 Music	 in	 Our	 Time.	 Student	 music	 teachers	 reflections	 on	 music	 education,	 teacher	 education	 and	 becoming	 a	 teacher.	 Published	 in:	 Music	 Education	 Research.	 2010,	 vol	 12,	 issue	 3,	 pp.	 353367.	 19 A significant outcome of using focus group interviews in this study was that they enabled a democratic conversation in which critical issues related to music education were problematised and discussed.
Accordingly, an appeal for active musicianship is put here in terms of active citizenship in education and society.
Perspective and method.
Enduring questions in changing contexts.
Ferm, C. & Johansen, G. (2008).
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Fem musiklrares livshistorier.
British Journal of Music Education.
Lroplan fr det obligatoriska skolvsendet 1994.
Musik en samtalsguide om kunskap, arbetsstt och bedmning.
pp 6374 In: On the sociology of music education: papers from the music education symposium at the University of Oklahoma.
Stockholm: Vetenskapsrdet.
Stockholm: Vetenskapsrdet.
Erfarenheter frn interkulturell lrarutbildning [Quality and diversity in higher education.
