Our work is underpinned by Goodson and Mangans definition (1995) of subject sub-cultures; using Shulmans knowledge bases (1987) as a lens to explore teachers perceptions, personal philosophies and pedagogical styles, we investigate the sub-culture of music in the classroom using ICT.
Computers fuelled a musical revolution, not only in the classroom but also in the professional world (Taylor, 2001; Wright, 2002; Dillon, 2005).
Theoretical Perspectives 1) The sub-culture of music In his discussion of classification and framing of educational knowledge, Bernstein (1971) argued that induction into a subject is also induction into a subject culture or community that represents particular assumptions about knowledge and the nature of teaching and learning.
121 non-specialist teachers within 12 English schools were asked to what extent they felt able to teach music to children; however, their use of ICT did not feature in this study.
What has subsequently proved to be most pertinent to educational debate 4 is the introduction of the concept of pedagogical content knowledge (PCK), the special amalgam of content and pedagogy that is uniquely the province of teachers.
This had two particular strengths: it provided a detailed, in-depth description of teachers attitudes whilst avoiding the problem of stereotypical answers often provided by large structured surveys.
In concordance with Schulmans delineation of PCK as an amalgam of other knowledge bases, we utilise this knowledge base to frame our subsequent discussion of music sub-culture, drawing upon data from the other six bases.
in the sense of what they think creatively, what they can do creatively.
I think you can have both sitting very comfortably alongside each other.
(Primary) The teachers noted that the technology appears to allow all pupils to participate fully in the composition process, whether or not they have instrumental and/or notational skills, concordant with the teachers philosophy of music for all.
This was also a central theme when teachers expressed other positive comments about the affordances of the softwareiv; these include the ability to see the music: we did ternary form, I wondered whether that would stick really well because it was so visual I think that was well taught, really, really well taught you know they just knew it, they just understood it completely.
(Primary) to play compositions into the computer at a slower tempo than it would eventually be performed: Because it means they can program things in slowly and speed them up and move things about.
(Secondary) ..and to give students access to contemporary instrumental sounds and styles as well as links to music outside school: And you know the guitarists were playing along cos there was Dance Ejay 4 has got lots of guitars and 12 string blues, and all sorts of stuff.
(Primary teacher discussing her training course).
(Primary) In comparison, the secondary teachers were all confident in their Content Knowledge; none mentioned any specific areas of concern.
(Primary) Indeed, many music software packages can appear quite complex.
Mills and Murray (2000), reporting on Ofstedv observations of British schools note that: Serious malfunctions and certain types of maintenance are a matter for technicians not for teachers, particularly as there is such a wide range of technologies that can be used in the music classroom.
A further challenge to existing music teaching pedagogies centres on the reliability and complexity of the equipment.
(Primary) A secondary teacher came to appreciate that the allocation of roles needed to be carefully planned to ensure equity: And if one persons doing all the technical side theyre not actually doing the practical work the same as everybody else.
(Secondary) Secondary teachers were keen to point out the many changes, aside from those related to the National Curriculum, that had come into being in recent years, largely linked to examination specification changes.
(Secondary) All teachers were unanimous in their feelings that the National Curriculum was, in essence, useful but primary colleagues reported that non-specialist teachers found it very hard to access, owing to their lack of music content and pedagogical knowledge: I dont think it allows non-specialist music teachers to get a grasp of music.
(Primary) Primary and secondary teachers reported the lack of computer equipment as an impediment to their teaching; their ideal was for all students to have access to a computer during a music lesson: I find it quite difficult at the moment because with I mean ideally I think the best situation where ICT would work fantastically was if you had a computer for every child - or pair of children.
(Secondary) Perhaps the strongest issue expressed concerning ICT provision was in relation to the constant need for technical support, which was considered lacking.
Whilst there was general ICT support in all schools, teachers commented that technicians were either unaware of the needs of music, lacked the necessary technical skills related to music- specific software and hardware or were unable to be present at the point at which the support was needed for the students to continue to work effectively.
Its extremely frustrating.
(Primary) Notably, neither primary nor secondary teachers commented specifically on the impact of the National Curriculum upon their music teaching with ICT.
However, following detailed video analysis and reference to field notes it was noted that a range of materials and tools were routinely employed and their use remained largely implicit.
It does not necessarily mean that you can compose.
The originality of composition work using this technology was questioned, despite the fact that many contemporary musical styles are based upon this type of manipulation of samples from others previously recorded work: I just dont think its right for Year 9 at all.
Id even doubt at Year 7 really I think I mean I think its great for primary schools to look at structure and arranging and everything.
And I might do it as an arrangement or looking at structure within music with Year 7 possibly, but(Secondary) . Within our previous discussion of music pedagogical knowledge we presented a number of ways in which the teachers perceived necessary changes to their classroom practice when using ICT for music: it is a completely different approach, and a completely different way of teaching.
Within the ICT units, the clear progression in the ICT skills development seemed to take priority, in many respects, over the musical outcomes.
Recognising that the students would need to develop awareness of the computer environment and facilities, the primary teachers all built in time for experimentation, at the beginning of their Subject Design Initiatives (SDIs).
Teachers without regular access to a music technician all expressed their strong desire to have this form of subject-specific support.
They were keen to explain the exciting possibilities to engage students in work within different genres, including the opportunities for composing in modern contemporary styles and within mixed media settings (adding music to film) and to use the ICT to support the notion of music for all, providing a medium for student composition in which students did not need to rely on traditional harmony and notation skills.
With rapid advances in technology, ever-evolving musical fashions and educational reforms in Britain, teachers attitudes, pedagogies and required skills are likely to change even over the next few years.
Young (Ed.) Knowledge and Control: New Directions for Sociology of Education (London, Collier-Macmillan).
Cain, T. (2004) Theory, technology and the music curriculum, British Journal of Music Education, 21(2), 215221.
Some theoretical and practical issues, Journal of Information Technology for Teacher Education, 10, 7-17.
17 Dillon, T. (2005) Future music: investigating the role of technology in enhancing public appreciation of and participation in music.
An Insight Paper.
Durant, A. (1990) A new day for music?
Lacey, C. (1977) The socialisation of teachers (London, Methuen).
Odam, G. (2000) Teaching composing in the secondary school: the creative dream, British Journal of Music Education, 17(2), 109-127.
Polyzou, A. (2005) Growth in Teachers Knowledge Whilst Learning to Teach with Multimedia: what has been learned from concrete educational experiences?, Technology, Pedagogy and Education, 14(2), 205223.
Rogers, R. (1998) The Disappearing Arts?
