This paper will focus on examining the beliefs of beginning teachers during their practicum experience in teacher education.
It identifies areas of need and development to be addressed through policy and practice in teacher education.
From these experiences also develop a set of self-efficacy beliefs towards the teachers own future capability in the arts.
Previously, educational focus had been on the early years of learning to establish literacy and numeracy, and the senior phase of learning to focus on post- compulsory and vocational education (Pendergast, 2007).
Few studies in Australia however have investigated the impact of teacher self-efficacy on the overall effectiveness of the teacher with students, especially within individual subject areas.
When the performance is 4 perceived a failure, self-efficacy beliefs are lowered.
Research into the perceptions of generalist teachers has largely focused on the lack of confidence by teachers (Jeanneret, 1997; Russell, 1996) and factors that contribute to confidence (Hennessy, 2000).
Within a study conducted by Housego (cited in Welch, 1995), it was postulated that there are two significant factors attributed to a teachers self perception.
Perceptions and beliefs therefore appear highly predictive of teaching practice.
This part of the study is guided by two research questions: 1. What were the positive effects of practicum experience on current beginning teacher arts practice?
2. What were the negative effects of practicum experience on current beginning teacher arts practice?
Method In 2008, I collected questionnaires from beginning teachers (years 4-7) throughout the state of Queensland Australia, to create a snapshot of the impact of practicum experience on beliefs towards the arts.
Recruitment of teachers occurred through professional teacher organisations, at schools and at beginning teacher conferences.
6 Demographics The sample consisted of 201 beginning generalist teachers in grades 4-9 throughout Queensland at government (46.8%) and independent schools (53.2%), located in city (31.8%), suburban (49.8%) and rural areas (18.4%).
Results are presented in graph 1. Graph 1 Teacher Education Practical Experience Beginning teachers wrote about their limited exposure to the teaching of the arts while observing; school curriculum appeared to focus on other key learning areas; and a general struggle with behaviour management: Many of my prac teachers did not do the arts.
(Beginning Teacher, 56).
Stencilled outlines of horses that children had to collage over, bubble blowing painting- where was the freedom of expression in that?
I had many opportunities to teach the arts on prac.
Practicum experience could therefore be viewed as an important time for teacher self-efficacy development, when beginning teachers take on values and beliefs associated with the schools collective efficacy.
These findings may provide insights into the growing imbalance occurring between music and the arts and other school subjects such as literacy and numeracy.
Beginning teachers may come to accept the school beliefs towards curriculum imbalance, impacting upon their own teaching practice towards the arts in their classroom.
Of interest, 37% of beginning teachers talked about positive experience during their practicum, based on supportive school cultures that encouraged arts engagement.
It would be interesting to see how these positive school cultures towards the arts were formed and sustained.
This paper reports results that raise interesting questions and starting points for further investigation in arts education.
Particular interest will relate to reforming arts training in generalist teacher education programmes and practicum experiences.
9 Future research needs to investigate the effects of different school cultures on beginning teacher beliefs towards the arts.
Can pre-service teachers be resistant to negative experiences in the arts while on practicum?
The middle years learner.
Proceedings of the American Educational Research Association Annual Conference, New Orleans.
Bartel, L., Cameron, L., Wiggins, J., & Wiggins, R. (2004).
Implications of generalist teachers self-efficacy related to music.
Rethinking middle years: Early adolescents, schooling and digital culture.
(2005).
Teaching middle years: Rethinking curriculum, pedagogy and assessment (pp.21-47).
Gibson, S., & Dembo, M. (1984).
Journal of Educational Psychology, 76(4), 569- 582.
In R.J.
Dortrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
(1997).
Unpublished doctoral dissertation, University of New South Wales.
Mulholland, J., & Wallace, J. (2001).
Pendergast, D. (2007).
Creative arts: Tests of specific hypotheses.
Welch, A. (1995).
Woolfolk Hoy, A.E.
& Davis, H.A.
