In 2008, I collected 201 questionnaires from beginning teachers throughout Queensland (years 4-9), focusing on their beliefs about teaching music and arts education.
Research suggests however, that the generalist teacher may have little confidence and competence in teaching music and the arts (Temmerman, 1997; Centre for Learning, Change and Development, 2005; Russell Bowie & Dowson, 2005).
This lack of value and support for music and the arts in learning at a systemic level can perpetuate already low levels of self-efficacy beliefs for music and the arts amongst teachers.
In particular, the review found a decline in hours given for generalist primary pre-service education courses for teaching music in schools (Centre for Learning, Change and Development, 2005).
xvi- xvii).
It is seen as a time when teachers create their own self-knowledge as they reflect on their own teaching practice (Bandura, 1997).
Self-efficacy is developed through the interaction between an individuals judgment of their teaching practice to perform a task and their perception of the actions required to perform that task successfully.
Teacher self-efficacy influences the level of motivation and amount of effort the individual brings to the task of teaching.
music teaching) may predispose an individual to try harder and persist longer with the task to achieve a desired outcome.
Beginning teachers (i.e.
Content analysis is a research technique for making replicable and valid inferences from texts (or other meaningful matter) to the contexts of their use (Krippendorff, 2004, p.18).
Students love arts lessons, so they have to complete their main course work to be able to participate (Respondent 50).
Beginning teachers appeared to be motivated by their current students to teach the arts, based on their beliefs about the arts.
In effect, many of the beginning teachers appear to have de-intellectualised music and the arts.
They suggested the subject was un-academic, peripheral, a reward, and good for fun and not much else activity within the classroom.
Beginning teachers were also asked to describe what would motivate them to teach the arts more in the classroom.
These included opportunities for professional development (26%), gaining arts knowledge (13%), more time (12%), more resources (9%), understanding the syllabus (9%), gaining confidence (6%), supportive students (4%), mentoring (3%), observation of others (3%), funding (3%), support (3%), support from other teachers (3%), overcrowded curriculum (2%) and a relaxation of current requirements (1%).
Beginning teachers would be more motivated to engage with music and the arts if they could increase and make changes to time, curriculum, support and funding for their learning.
It shows glimpses of the assessment and beliefs that beginning teachers make towards the task of teaching music and the arts.
Rather, beginning teachers were motivated by extrinsic benefits that music and the arts could bring to students in their classroom.
Teachers surveyed did not appear to be motivated by the intrinsic benefits of music and arts education or the notion of music and arts for life.
Specialist teachers could take on the role of specialist curriculum facilitators, providing knowledge, guidance and support for beginning generalist teachers.
While these barriers have been recognized previously in music education research, it is of particular interest that beginning teachers linked these barriers directly to their motivational beliefs about teaching music and the arts.
5. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT I would like to acknowledge the Australian Music and Psychology Society for providing financial assistance through the Student International Conference Travel Assistance Scheme.
This paper has been modified from the original presentation given at the 7th Asian Pacific Symposium on Music Education (24th-28th of June 2009) in Shanghai, China.
REFERENCES 1. Bandura, A. (1977).
Social foundations of thought and action: A social cognitive theory.
3. Bandura, A. (1997).
Self-efficacy: The exercise of control.
New York: Freeman.
(2005).
Retrieved April 2, 2008 from http://www.dest.gov.au/sectors/school_education/publ ications/profiles/school_music_education.htm.
Harrisonburg, VA: Yale University Press.
Model for developing preserves primary teachers confidence to teach music.
Bulletin of the Council for Research in Music Education, 133, 37-44.
12.
13.
(2003).
Sydney: MCA.
14.
16.
Russell-Bowie, D., & Dowson, M. (2005).
Wallen, N., & Fraenkel, J. (2001).
Mahwah, New Jersey: Lawrence Erlbaum.
