Engaging students in creating visual narratives through body mapping allows for transformation in the teacher preparation process.
This directly influences the integral topic of teacher identity, which has continued to find an important place within the realm of music education (Anspal, Eisenschmidt, & Lfstrm, 2012; Ballantyne, Kerchner, & Arstegui, 2012; Bernard, 2009; Dolloff, 2007; Ferguson, 2009; Jones & Parkes, 2009; Lamb, 2003; Lamont, 2011; Pellegrino, 2009; Welch, Purves, Hargreaves, & Marshall, 2010).
	 3 Canoble and Canoble (2000) define body mapping as ones self-representation in ones brain (p.
How can their own personal experiences of music be positively shaped into forming their teacher identity?
To explore this process, I situate my own experience in the broader literature regarding this topic.
Such an experience allows participants to heighten awareness and appreciation of the multiple threads and storylines that make up lives in motion.
In particular, I draw upon the work of Barone and Eisner (2006, 2012) and ODonoghue (2009, 2011, in press) in framing body mapping within the context of arts-based inquiry.
The purpose was to explore how teacher candidates experiences in their daily lives informed their teaching practices.
The specific research question guiding this was: How do visual narratives influence teacher candidates music teacher identities?
Consider where you were, who was with you and how it made you feel.
I also asked students how they felt about being in my class and about learning to teach music to primary and junior students.
Some Celtic harp playing in the background accompanied the activity.
Of the 20 participants, 13 were female and seven were male.
Again, I asked, What kind of music teacher would you like to be?
A number of quotes, taken directly from the research transcripts, help to illuminate the value of the teacher candidates creating body maps.
At times, some students found it challenging to create an image for an emotion they were feeling or how they wanted to clearly express an idea.
At first, I found it a little bit difficult because Im not a visual art person.
I thought it was a more creative way of explaining my experience with music and I liked that.
In this light, her experiences began to resonate with one another and led her to visually narrate interconnected experiences.
He elaborated when he said, I love visual art.
Although he also liked to write, he explained that it [visual art] was much more fun than writing.
I have to find it again.
I didnt realize how involved music was until I had it laid out on this map.
She said, Oh, I guess I do have a lot of music experiences that I never even considered would be musical or I never even remembered or thought about and then as I was putting them down, it all came back.
Various aspects would jump out at me, she described and it would trigger like a memory or a feeling or an emotion.
It also forced me to prioritize and to prioritize how I want to teach and what I want to teach and whether or not I want to teach.
Krista had a number of music symbols on her body map and then colored over them all with black marker, representing a black hole.
I have a better understanding that music is everywhere.
Narrative inquiry, thus, is grounded in experience.
Barrett and Stauffer (2012) elaborate: For narrative inquirers, experience is regarded as both the essence of being and the source of knowing.
Stauffer and Barrett (2009) describe narrative inquiry as deeply relational and even co- relational work.
Comparing the two body maps would enhance my ability to assess how well my course prepared candidates to teach music and whether or not it transformed their musical identities and reduced their fear.
While doing so was not part of the research study, I have since integrated a question on the final written reflection the teacher candidates complete for the course.
Elementary educators perceptions of elementary general music instructional goals.
Adler, A. (2012).
In M. S. Barrett & S. L. Stauffer (Eds.), Narrative soundings: An anthology of narrative inquiry in music education (pp.
New York, NY: Springer.
doi: 10.1080/13540602.2012.632268 Art2Be: Art therapy for positive living and social change.
doi: 10.1177/0027432111434588 Barone, T., & Eisner, E. (2006).
Barrett, M. S., & Stauffer, S. L. (2009).
Dordrecht, The Netherlands: Springer.
In M. S. Barrett & S. L. Stauffer (Eds.), Narrative soundings: An anthology of narrative inquiry in music education (pp.
Dordrecht, The Netherlands: Springer.
Integration of music in the elementary curriculum: perceptions of preservice elementary education majors.
Body mapping: embodying the self living with HIV/AIDS.
Handbook of narrative inquiry: Mapping a methodology.
Border Crossings, 105, 5865.
Dordrecht, The Netherlands: Springer.
British Journal of Music Education, 23(1), 2338.
	 26 MacGregor, H. N. (2009).
Retrieved from http://www.catie.ca/en/positiveside/springsummer-2006/putting-hope-map ODonoghue, D. (2009).
Dordrecht, The Netherlands: Springer.
