Furthermore, it is thought that musical sounds introduced in utero, after the auditory cortex has developed, can affect subsequent infant behavior (Olds, 1985).
In essence, consistent supportive evidence has been found for an arousal and mood effect rather than for a Mozart Effect per se.
Similarly, when comparing three distinct types of notation used to represent music (musical, verbal, and numerical), Schon, Anton, Roth, & Besson (2002) found that reading musical notation produced activity in unique regions of the brain, indicating that the visuo-motor transcoding pathways used for reading musical notation may differ from those used with reading verbal or numerical notation.
In the effort to venture beyond correlational research and explore a causal connection between music instruction and various relevant independent variables, several researchers have employed a random subject assignment to various music and non-music instruction treatments to insure that extraneous variables (socio-economic background, involvement in other extra curricular activities, etc.) would not affect the results.
In a more recent study, Schellenberg (2004) sought to examine the unique effect of music instruction on a global indicator of intelligence by comparing the effects of music instruction, drama instruction, and no instruction on intelligence as measured by the entire Wechsler Childs Growth & Development 3.8 Intelligence Scale for Children Third Edition (Weschler, 1991).
The Weschler test is comprised of four indices, verbal comprehension, perceptual organization, processing speed, and freedom from distractibility that are combined to provide an overall IQ score.
These findings support the notion that music instruction when compared to drama instruction or no instruction has a unique positive influence on intellectual growth as measured by a global indicator that included dimensions other than spatial ability.
The small amount of existing research concerning the impact of music education on motor development uses subjects grouped in the following categories: (a) early childhood and preschool, and (b) school-aged children.
Gilbert administered the MMST to 808 children, ages three through six.
Brown, Sherrill, & Gench, (1981) examined two approaches to facilitating perceptual-motor development in four-six year old kindergartners (N = 30).
Further, no between-group differences in IQ were found.
School-Aged Children DeVries (2004) sought to investigate the extra-musical effects of a music education program in one preschool classroom over a period of six weeks.
Among increases in other variables including socialization, expression, sociodramatic play, and listening skills, engagement in music-movement activities were found to develop motor skills in children.
Subjects using one or two CRDIs rated sections significantly higher than did subjects using paper-and-pencil rating scales.
To facilitate responses being differentiated across time rather than in aggregate by use of arithmetic means, an a priori decision was made to analyze the data graphically and descriptively.
Significant differences were found in the responses between music and non-music majors.
Childs Growth & Development 3.19 From a broader perspective, however, there is a need to study the impact of music education on emotional response and development using a wider range of tools than only the CRDI dial. Although the CRDI provides rich and vast amounts of quantitative information, it is but one way to examine a topic that is highly complex and inherently multifaceted.
The subjects responses were recorded and changes in the physical, language and social development were documented.
Based on the findings the researcher concluded that much of the learning occurred through imitation and social interaction and that participation in self-selected music experiences may encourage toddlers to develop a disposition to engage in music making.
The New York State Education Department Bureau of Guidance commissioned a study in which questionnaires were mailed to 2,448 graduates and 1,286 dropouts.
The program was found to be more effective for younger children (K-first grade) and for children of low economic status (many of them being at risk).
No significant increase in school attendance rates was found; however, the grade point averages of the students increased significantly between before and after participating in the program.
Significant improvements were found in students self-perception of musical competence.
Similar to the suggestions for further research into the impact of music learning on social development, systematic lines of research over a number of studies are needed to examine specific aspects of musics effect on at-risk students.
Nevertheless, none of these common research tacks actually examine the impact of music and music education on special needs students, which is the purpose of this section.
Conversely, Duffy and Fuller (2000) compared subjects in music (n = 16) and in non-music interventions (n = 16) and found that significant improvement in five target skills (turn-taking, imitation, vocalization, initiation and eye contact) to be independent of either eight-week interventions.
Interaction among the children increased following the music therapy intervention phase.
Motor Development Although, at the preschool level, girls tend to outperform boys in music-related psychomotor tasks, more research is needed to determine whether such differences persist or fade as students age and/or mature in other ways.
Similar to the suggestions for further research into the impact of music learning on social development, systematic lines of research over a number of studies are needed to examine specific aspects of musics effect on at-risk students.
International Journal of Applied Music, 1(1), 28-33.
Journal of Research in Music Education, 46, 173-181.
(University Microfilms No. 73-31897).
Dissertation Abstracts International, A. The Humanities and Social Sciences, 64(12A).
Time tagging: A key to musicians superior memory.
Childs Growth & Development 3.39 Lu, D. T. (1986).
Human Brain Mapping, 12, 94-99.
Neiman, Z. (1989).
Ragert, P., Schmidt, A., Altenmller, E., and Dinse, H.R.
European Journal of Neuroscience, 19(2), 473 478.
EEG correlates of enhanced spatial performance following exposure to music.
Perceptual and Motor Skills, 82, 427-432.
Dissertation Abstracts International, 64(9A), 3162 Saffran, J. R., Loman, M. M., & Robertson, R. R. W. (2000).
Cognition, 77(1), B15-B23.
UK: Causal Publications.
Schleuter, S. L., & Schleuter, L. J. (1989).
Oxford, UK: Clarendon Press.
Snyder, D. M. (1985).
Perceptual and Motor Skills, 88, 843- 848.
Foundations: Music perception in infancy.
