7 VALUE OF MUSIC EDUCATION ...............................................................................................
7 MUSIC PROGRAM AVAILABILITY AND QUALITY .......................................................................
Todays educational environment presents many challenges for music education.
As No Child Left Behind (NCLB) has gone from concept to implementation, school districts have focused on making progress on the outcomes that NCLB requires.
The result has been less emphasis and priority placed on subjects for which No Child Left Behind does not mandate testing, such as art and music education becoming particularly hard-hit.
MENC has forged many partnerships, publications, and programs in its efforts to advance music education and is an important national voice on the subject.
The current focus in education is squarely on making progress on test scores and increasing graduation rates.
The margin of error for this survey is + 4.6 percentage points.
The primary objective of this research was to understand and assess the links between the quality and quantity of a schools music program to known educational outcomes measures for their schools.
In addition, the survey also covered educational outcomes measures, which were gathered from poll respondents themselves, as well as other secondary sources when available.
With one exception (sampling error) the magnitude of the errors that result cannot be estimated.
5 2006, Harris Interactive Inc. All rights reserved EXECUTIVE SUMMARY The National Association for Music Education (MENC) commissioned Harris Interactive to conduct a telephone survey of public high school principals and vice principals nationwide.
Final survey results offered several important findings.
More than a quarter of schools that indicate that they do not have music program also indicate that 50% or more of their student body is eligible to participate in the reduced or free lunch program.
Further, when it comes to educational outcomes those who have a music program and are core supporters of music education have higher attendance and graduation rates.
Principals in the Northeast, Midwest and those who feel they have an excellent or very good quality music program are more likely to strongly agree that students who participate in music education generally achieve higher grades.
Those more likely to feel their music program has grown include those who are music advocates (Feel a quality music education program contributes a great deal to their school achieving higher graduation rates, have a program, feel their music program is of excellent or very good quality and believe music education is extremely or very important.) 6 2006, Harris Interactive Inc. All rights reserved Most music programs are offered as part of the academic program, with many stating they have large ensemble groups.
For small ensemble groups, 85% indicate having a jazz ensemble.
7 2006, Harris Interactive Inc. All rights reserved KEY FINDINGS 1. VALUE OF MUSIC EDUCATION Seven in ten (70%) public school principals feel a music education is extremely or very important to a students educational success.
10 Seven in ten say music education is extremely or very important to a students educational success.
Would you say?
55% 50% 40% 31% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Participating in music education encourages and motivates students to stay in school longer.
Students who participate in music education are more likely than other students to form deeper relationships with other students.
Q6: To what extent do you agree with the following statements?
BASE: 450 Public HS Principals and Vice Principals % Strongly Agree Principals in the Midwest are more likely to strongly agree that students who participate in music education generally achieve higher grades and are more likely to form deeper relationships with other students.
Furthermore, those who feel they have an excellent or very good quality music program are more likely to strongly agree that participating in music education encourages and motivates students to stay in school longer and these students generally achieve higher grades.
Twenty-five percent of principals interviewed say a quality music education program contributes a great deal to their school achieving higher graduation rates, with those in urban and suburban areas being more likely to indicate this.
9 2006, Harris Interactive Inc. All rights reserved 2. MUSIC PROGRAM AVAILABILITY AND QUALITY AS IT EFFECTS GRADUATION RATES The majority of respondents indicate they have a music program.
There is a higher attendance and graduation rate among those who have a music program.
Those that rate their music program as good have a graduation rate of 89.9%.
One quarter feel that No Child Left Behind has had an effect on the quality or scope of their schools music education program.
Music classSmall ensembleLarge ensemble Part of extracurricular program Part of academic program N/A63%64% 62%74%86% Q17/18: Which of the following types of music classes/opportunities are offered as part of the ACADEMIC/EXTRACURRICULAR PROGRAM within your school?
Furthermore, among those who have a large ensemble group, the most popular are a concert band and choir.
For small ensemble groups, 85% indicate having a jazz ensemble.
42 On average principals say about 8% of the schools total instructional budget is allocated to their music program.
To this end, the research identified three basic groups: Pro/Advocates These individuals currently form your core basis of support for music education.
They are the primary target for communications and can be swayed by the right messaging.
20 Advocates 31% Swing 68% Opposition 2% Three in ten are core supporters of music programs and their impact on student education.
