Despite continued efforts throughout the 1970s and 1980s by leaders in music education to include composing experiences in curricula (Fowler, 1988; Hoffer, 1973; Regelski, 1986; Swanson, 1973), composing and arranging activities remained largely absent from school music programs (Eisner, 1982; Leonhard, 1988; Ling, 1974).
Froseth (1996) found that prior to training in composing, 57% of undergraduates in a junior level instrumental methods class felt unprepared to teach composing to their students.
The reasons cited for not including composing included a lack of comfort teaching composing, a belief there was not enough time to include composing, a belief that composing was not an appropriate activity or a useful learning tool, and a belief that it was more important to focus on meeting other standards, particularly in the area of performance.
The inter- weaving of theory and practice is necessary if students learning is to be relevant and constructive.
At the University of Michigan, we have found that many of our music education students enter our program with little or no experience composing and arranging.
They are required to include accents and stickings where appropriate.
They transpose their motives to start on other open string pitches, like G and A. They create melodies utilizing two of their created rhythmic patterns and setting them to pitches of the D major scale with the final note being the tonic.
Two of the most common projects that Dr. Kate Fitzpatrick and both authors have assigned require students to complete arrangements of folk tunes, other familiar like songs, or a known song from the choral/instrumental repertoire; or to compose variations on a chosen or created theme.
To ensure suitability to the MS setting, students are asked to consult publishers grade level guidelines and target their composition/arrangement to a specific grade level.
The piece is assessed based on criteria such as length, coherence of form, and use of different instrument sounds.
Hopkins has assigned theme based or multimedia projects to help students generate interesting ideas.
They are required to write their own original material consisting of 3 4 minutes of music with eight different instrument tracks and record the composition using the internal software synthesizers.
The students did find the project valuable so instead of replacing it we decided to scale back the project.
In Younkers elementary music methods class, students were led through a variety of composing activities that included teacher- directed parameters and student-directed parameters.
(4) create a melody and supply the harmony to go with the melody, (5) create an introduction and coda for the melody as described in (4), (6) create music for a commercial that represents an idea created by your group, (7) create a theme and variations on that theme, (8) create a composition.
In the fieldwork for the elementary string methods class, students take the project they completed in the string techniques class, and try leading a similar project with 7th grade students in a small group setting.
It allows the student to have space and time to reflect on what was offered, without any immediate input.
(6) What can be changed to enhance the product and why?
Revision is challenging so integrating specific strategies can be most helpful.
As Leonhard wrote over 20 years ago: The most damning aspect of music education lies in our consistent avoidance of self- expression through the creation of music by composing and improvisation.
We believe that through the inclusion of composing projects throughout the undergraduate music education curriculum, we may be able to graduate teachers that feel comfortable and confident providing their students with opportunities to compose.
References Adderley, C., Schneider, C., & Kirkland, N. . (2006).
Elementary music teacher preparation in U.S. colleges and universities relative to the national standards - goals 2000.
Barrett, M. (2006).
Psychology of Music, 34(2), 195-218.
a. (1971).
(1973).
CMP in Perspective.
Reston, Va.: Music Educators National Conference.
In W. Grant (Ed.), Music in Education (pp.
Washington, DC: National Academy Press.
A creative experience for music teachers: introduce young students to composition.(upbeat: News and notes for today's music educator).
Fowler, C. B. (1988).
Hoffer, C. R. (1973).
Composition in Orchestra Class.
Teaching Music, 14(2), 32.
Teaching Music, 10(5), 26.
New York: Schirmer Books.
Mursell, J. L. (1953).
New York: Silver Burdett.
9	 Newberry, E., & Strand, K. (2007).
Reponding to Student Compositions.
In Hickey, M. (2003).
(pp.
A sound approach to sound composition.
Bulletin - Council for Research in Music Education(169), 25- 37.
In Hickey, M. (2003).
(pp.
