Keywords: universitycommunity partnership; teacher education; world music pedagogy; ethnographic research Universitycommunity collaborations reflect a renewed focus in higher education on institutions civic responsibility to address current needs in society (Cox, 2000).
If there is a university commitment to community service, then the involvement of university faculty and students in school revitalization can be justified.
Hence, a partnership that engages prospective music educators in teaching music to, and making music for, multicultural student populations may be fashioned to be responsive to this essential goal.
Audio and video recordings were made of 32 hours of classroom teaching visits and performance events at the school sites.
One-on-one semistructured interviews, as well as unstructured interviews, were conducted with the teachers and university students (Creswell, 2005; Fontana & Frey, 2005).
As well, there were class handouts, songs and song sheets, teaching schedules, and lesson plans.
The Indian nation has permitted the settlement of non-Indians, chief among whom are Mexican and Mexican American migrant worker families and their descendants of one or two generations removed from itinerant farm labor.
At the middle school, 700 students were enrolled, most of whom were of Hispanic or Indian heritage.
University Students of Music Education University student participants in the MAV partnership were enrolled in courses, of which the MAV partnership was set as a central piece on the syllabus and in the learning process.
In preparation for their excursions to the Valley, undergraduate music education students spent time within their university courses devoted to learning, designing, preparing, and arranging songs, movements, and gestures to accompany the singing; preparing stories to tell; and arranging rhythmicking activities using body percussion and thick sticks that resembled foot-long claves of about 2 inches in diameter.
The university students were organized into small teaching dyads and trios by the professor, based on their personalities and extent of teaching experience.
/ UniversitySchool Music Partnership 343 children at Riverside Elementary School and for performances and participatory experiences in music at a second elementary school, a middle school in the district, and the tribal school.
Mrs. Stage, a fifth-grade teacher, expressed that the periodic music experiences had so stimulated her young students that they cant stop singing the songs and that while we were getting in line, one kid asked if we could sing on the way to the bus.
Maria, a fourth-grade girl, at UNIV WASHINGTON LIBRARIES on October 1, 2010jrm.sagepub.comDownloaded from 344 Journal of Research in Music Education confided in Lisa, one of the university students who had just closed a lesson with a rousing set of body percussion rhythms, that I could have music all around me all the time, if only I could.
He spoke passionately about what our program meant for his school and told us how much he appreciated our time with his students.
Other teachers commented that although they favored music activities in their classroom, they could never imagine themselves at UNIV WASHINGTON LIBRARIES on October 1, 2010jrm.sagepub.comDownloaded from Soto et al.
The following components compose a collage of experiences that unfolded through the course of the partnership.
At the university, the partnership had been conceived of by a member of the music education faculty as a valuable means of addressing the need for prospective teachers to understand the ramifications of socioeconomic and ethnic-cultural characteristics of some of the students with whom they may work one day, who are rural, poor, and from minority families.
Through a number of individual meetings, the music education professor was successful in convincing the directors to lend their support to the partnership if residencies could be brief enough and scheduled early each term so as to avoid students absences in the period of intensive preconcert rehearsals.
A consistent flow of communication was deemed necessary to keep music faculty reminded of the partnership events and to seek respectfully their approval for every visit by students to the Valley.
Homestays The university students stayed overnight with local families, and accommodations were arranged such that two or three students of the same gender were assigned to a particular family.
Breakfast and lunch were taken as a student group, but dinner was left to share with the host family.
Studies in math, science, and language arts were complemented by native language and culture classes.
The principal discussed the communitys use of the schools physical facilities for after-school activities for children and for families, including English-language and citizenship classes.
Yet, one comment from Jeff, on the commitment of local families to schooling, paved the path to an enthusiastic discussion by the student group: It is an unfortunate misconception that working-class parents dont have the time or inclination to be involved with their childrens education, as this is obviously not the case at this school!
Children performed together the songs they learned from the graduate student coordinator, which were reinforced by the undergraduate students in their visits, including a combination of Spanish- language folk songs, an Anglo-American play party song, and a South African freedom song.
Self-selected Riverview students performed folklorico dancing in the traditional style and dress of the province of Jalisco, Mexico.
University Students Students were initially apprehensive about traveling 2 hours from the university campus to teach at an elementary school in a rural district, and several suggested that a more convenient situation should easily be arranged for the project in a school nearby.
Jennifer, a 22-year-old violin student, burst into a class discussion about childrens responses to lesson segments: I loved the students who scurried to sit next to us and so desperately wanted to partici- pate.
Even though many students remarked on the challenges of arranging their class studies and ensemble schedules to fit the visits, they appeared grateful for the experience and enthusiastic with possibilities for returning to the Valley to teach children and for knowing the community in which the school resides.
Mrs. Flores, a fourth-grade teacher, candidly remarked why she favored the visits of the university students.
We had a music teacher who did the same thing from kindergarten to Grade 5. The same thing every class!
We have music here at school, but not enough.
The challenge of the MAV partnership project was in the considerable organization far in advance of the visit by university personnel.
Scheduling was complicated, in particular due to numerous schedules with which to contend: university students course schedules, school curricular events, individual classroom activity set by classroom teachers, and host family arrangements.
What Cox (2000) had theorized about partnerships, that each party to the partnership is an important source for stimulating questions, participating in information gathering, and selecting and applying the solutions (p.
15), had played out in full in the MAV project.
It was the partnerships aim that this distance be lessened, as all involved would learn about one another through meaningful experiences in music.
Follow-up study could be useful, too, to determine the strength of the effect of the partnership on the lives of participants.
Establishing university-community partnerships: Processes and benefits.
New York: Norton.
Bridging troubled waters: Learning communities for the 21st century.
In P. S. Campbell, J. Drummond, P. Dunbar-Hall, K. Howard, H. Schippers, & T. Wiggins (Eds.), Cultural diversity in music education: Directions and challenges for the 21st century (pp.
Writing ethnographic fieldnotes: Chicago guides to writing, editing, and publishing.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
Journal of Product Innovation Management, 15, 237254.
Journal of Vocational Behavior, 64, 308319.
In P. S. Campbell, J. Drummond, P. Dunbar-Hall, K. Howard, H. Schippers, & T. Wiggins (Eds.), Cultural diversity in music education: Directions and challenges for the 21st century (pp.
Foreign Language Annals, 37(2), 254262.
