comes to mind.) One thing I do remember, though, is how central music was to my education, almost from the outset.
General music class from Kindergarten ona piano in the classroom, and the music teacher wheeling in her cart, filled with singing books and percussion instruments.
I wanted to play the trumpet, as my father had, but had such a bad overbite that I couldnt make a soundgood or badon it).
High school band.
Orchestra.
The school musical.
Its always tempting to look back rosily at the good old days, but the enriched curriculum I describe wasnt any sort of special, Julliard-prep, professionally-directed education.
Harvard business school.
Music wasnt a required, core-curricular sort of track.
Americans were convinced that 2 they were educating a population worthy of the greatest nation in the world, and that subjects like music were an essential part of that education.
My parents didnt offer me a piano and lessons when I was seven because they hoped I would gain an advantage over my peers in spatial-temporal aptitude or ace my math SATs years laterthey told me that it was something everyone should have a chance to experience, and that they would have loved to, had their families financial circumstances permitted purchase of an instrument or lessons.
Now, with children of my own, and some understanding of the desire to give ones children the best things in life, it resonates strongly.
Schools faced tough choices in the 80sstudent populations dipped at the end of the baby boom, and tax bases shrank.
We were in danger of becoming a second world country, educationally.
Stringent standardized tests were employed to measure schools (and students) progress.
Studies among student populations tended to focus on four areas, attempting to demonstrate correlation between the study of music and Spatial/temporal reasoningthe ability to visualize spatial patterns and mentally manipulate them over a time-ordered sequence, the kind of thinking associated with architecture, engineering, and advanced mathematics Achievement in math Achievement in reading Reinforcement of social-emotional or behavioral objectivesin other words, that involvement in an arts environment in school produces students who are good citizens in the school community.
We can compete in the forum of Objective Value, in a world which measures accomplishment by precise metrics.
Studies on preschool populations in California showed huge gains in spatial temporal reasoning ability among 3 to 5 year olds exposed to an intensive music curriculum as opposed to a control group -- though these gains seem to have quickly evaporated when the two groups were merged back together and the intensive curriculum was terminated.
Critics pointed out that the very significant gains measured among preschool children evaporated when they were merged back into the general population (Ive always had trouble with this onesort of like taking a group, feeding them significantly better food, noting the positive differences in health, and then dismissing those benefits because they disappeared when you returned them to the bad diet.
The solution, I would think, would lie in keeping them on the good dietbut what do I know of research?).
Simply puthigh school students involved in music do perform significantly better on their SATs than those who are not.
Is this because of their musical involvement?
Does music make you smarter, or are smarter students drawn to music?
All of us involved in the arts realize intuitively that the arts have made us betterbetter students, better teachers, better parents.
The kind of people who live and die by quantifiable metrics wont approve of my change in approach, but then, they wont get it, anywaybecause music is 5 essential for reasons that are the polar opposite of everything that can be measured on the MCAS.
In a society addicted to quick fixes, what a refreshing lesson to learn!
Compromise.
Community.
Private instruction and simple experience gave me impromptu science classes in the physics of sound and contexted world history in the art produced by people who were there.
Teaching to the test and, more to the point, learning to the test, is guaranteed to produce graduates with adequate tools to follow directions.
Bullying.
Maybe the goal is to turn out people like my father-in-law, who has a PhD in biomechanical engineering.
As someone who is a professional musician, I am in awe, and a little bit jealous, of someone who goes to the piano and plays for himself late into the night when confronted with a problem he cant solve.
When hes happyhe plays piano.
My seven year-old son is fortunate enough to go to a great public school, with many opportunities for creative exploration.
He thought in silence for a while, and then said I bet kids who go to that kind of school end up dumb (his term, not mine).
I asked him why, and he replied Because, if that was all I studied all day in school, I would be so bored that I wouldnt want to learn any more.
Out of the mouths of babes.
I dont think one of them is quantifiable, and I dont think any of them can be proved with a study.
We can continue to pretend that the QUALITIES that we value in a member of the human community are measurable as QUANTITIES, or we can embrace a holistic approach to our childrens, and our societys, successful future.
Thats not the only place where this wonderful gift fits into my day.
Besides my music life, think about yours.
