The paper will discuss issues arising from the report and how it has impacted music in Australian schools twelve months later.
Background The National Review of School Music Education: Augmenting the Diminished was released on 21 November, 2005.
Funding was provided by the Australian Government Quality Outcomes Programme.
(Seares et al, 2005, p.1) The need for this investigation was prompted by a widespread recognition that music is an important part of every childs education.
There is also a general perception that Australian school music education is approaching a state of crisis (Seares et al, 2005, p.2).
(Seares et al, 2005, pp.2-3) Individuals and music interest groups were invited to provide submissions for the Review.
Here 4,586 open submissions were received as well as 180 letters of support.
Surveys were sent to the principals of 525 schools (Sample Schools) where they were asked to respond to a set of questions about music programs at their schools (Survey of Schools).
These were catagorised as effective music schools (Music Schools).
The National Review of School Music Education The National Review of School Music Education has provided a snapshot of music education in schools in Australia at the beginning of the twenty first century.
The status of music in schools is patchy at best, and reform is demonstrably needed, with strong support from your government (Seares et al, 2005, p.i).
(Seares et al, 2005, p.xxv) There are six sections in the Review followed by extensive appendices.
(Seares et al, 2005, p.1) Music is classified as one of the arts which comprises dance, drama, media, music and visual arts.
These were: The context of the arts as a learning area; The value of universal music education and community expectations and commitment to it; The accessibility, equity and sustainability of effective music programmes; The leadership roles of governments and agencies; Understandings about the current quality of music education in Australian schools with a focus on the appropriateness of current school music activities to meet student needs; Role of music teachers and the effectiveness of teacher preparation through pre-service courses and their ongoing professional development; Teaching approaches necessary for school music education in the 21st century; The role of co-curricular music in schools instrumental music and vocal music; The importance of technology to contemporary music education; Recognition of the impact of Australias diverse and complex cultural factors on school music including cultural diversity, musical giftedness and talent, music and students with special needs, and gender issues in music; Adequacy of curriculum guidance and support; Levels of resourcing and provision; and Impact of music and arts organisations on the status and quality of school music.
The Review found that 66% of schools offered music to all students, 16% to certain year levels, 24% as a music elective and 6% to gifted students.
(Seares et al, 2005, p.64) The qualifications of teachers were discussed in the Report.
The implementation of the Curriculum Standards Framework (CSF) had resulted in music being absorbed within the arts category.
There was a perception that the quality of music teachers was poor linked to a large perception that teacher training in music education is inadequate at present (Seares et al, 2005, p.60).
2. How will we know if Australian schools are maximising that music learning?
(Seares et al, 2005, p.81) From this a series of guidelines were designed under five categories which were guidelines for; student learning, inputs to music education, teachers and classrooms, the broader community supporting music in schools and a discussion.
They are intended to blueprint the future of music education in Australian schools rather than be used in looking back over the shoulder at the past (Seares et al, 2005, p.104).
The Review presented the guidelines in two columns entitled Focus for Learning and Key Questions.
Part 5 Issues, challenges, and opportunities for School Music Education Part 5 is a discussion of the issues, challenges, opportunities, strategic directions and recommended actions.
The recommendations were grouped into issues which were; status; access and equity leading to participation and engagement; teacher education; curriculum policy; support services; partnerships; facilitating effective music in schools and accountability.
They recognised the diversity of work involved including face-to-face-teaching as well as after hours work including ensembles, performances, camps, excursions, public relations, looking after music equipment, resource management and when applicable managing itinerant staff.
(Seares et al, 2005, p.142) Press Releases The press releases on the Review discussed the issues with the state of music in Australian schools.
Future Directions The Review stressed that urgent reform was needed in music teaching in Australian schools.
Julie Bishop has been appointed the Minister of Education after being Aged Care Minister.
There have been articles published on the Review which have provided exposure to the document.
Here she discussed the current state of music education as explained in the Review, the issue of quality music teaching, music education and life skills and collaborations with school, community and university collaborations.
Using the resources available can also have a positive effect on music in schools.
She discussed how for the recommendations to be effective, it is curriculum provision and access that will have the most impact.
National Review of School Music Education.
Music Forum, 13(1), pp.
28-31.
Schools missing the sound of music.
Montague, J. (2006).
Message from the ASME National President.
Update ASME, 14(2), p.1.
National Review of School Music Education: Augmenting the Diminished.
Temmerman, N (2006a).
Temmerman, N. (2006b) Teachers are the key.
