It is the most preferred leisure time activity for many adolescents (Fitzgerald, Joseph et al.
Allegations have been made about backmasking satanic messages in some songs, although these have mostly been proven to have more superficial intentions namely commercial success (Blecha 2004).
1994; Scheel and Westefeld 1999; Lacourse, Claes et al.
2001; Bushong 2002).
This is in keeping with research that proposes a reflective relationship between adolescents music preferences and their mental health status.
Healthy adolescence is defined by the rejection of the primacy of the family unit in preference for the development of social networks.
Lacourse and colleagues (2001) discovered that the vicarious release experienced through music listening was actually inversely related with suicidal ideation for girls.
It functioned as entertainment, revival, strong sensation, diversion, discharge, mental work, and solace.
1978) based on the analysis of descriptions generated by adolescents where the role of music is stated as: relieving tension; taking their mind off things, passing time and negating boredom, as well as helping them feel less alone and creating or maintaining a good mood.
They did not set out to improve their mood, but they instinctively knew what kind of music they needed to listen to and described good music as being able to fit several different moods and situations.
In order to further investigate the positive use of music to influence mood, the research question driving this study was: How successfully do teenagers use self-selected music to influence their mood?
The sample set consisted of 342 students in Years 10 and 11 at the participating secondary college.
The schedule for participation was coordinated by a contracted teacher who collected the groups of students from each class group based on the return of consent forms.
Section 1 comprised questions to gather the socio-economic data, including a question on religiosity.
It has been used in a number of Australian surveys of the general population (ABS 2003) and strong associations have been found between high scores on the K10 and diagnoses of anxiety and affective disorders (Andrews and Slade 2001; Furukawa, Kessler et al.
This is a slightly larger variation of age than is traditionally associated with years 11 and 12 in an Australian secondary school.
Figure 2: Distribution of K10 Scores by Gender Mode of listening The authors were particularly interested in the mode of listening to music as it was considered to represent accessibility to music.
Time spent listening Results in this area support the widely-accepted view that adolescents spend a lot of time listening to music.
Use of music to manage moods The results of our study found that these adolescents most frequently used preferred music to enhance their mood and reported feeling better after listening.
Fewer students reported improvements after music listening for moods of anger and sadness (45.95% and 47.75% respectively).
Rock, rap/hip-hop, R&B, dance and heavy metal were the most common preferences across all moods.
However this is an unlikely explanation in the context of this study since participants were reflecting on experiences in the past four weeks.
By downloading music, young people are now able to select music of their own preference in the privacy of their own home.
It also means that they are free to access a range of music during different moods, suggesting that their answers to the survey are more likely to reflect actual uses of music rather than desired behaviours.
Pop music is, by definition, popular with the masses, and Shuker (2001) has presented it as a reflection of popular culture.
Similarly, the high-risk cohort showed a consistent loyalty to heavy metal music, although rock music did dominate preferences in a positive mood.
Heavy metal music has traditionally been associated with more deviant behaviour (Scheel and Westefeld 1999; Lacourse, Claes et al.
With further research, this may show that those adolescents at high risk of mental health issues are not as adept at using music to enhance their level of mental health.
Andrews, G. and T. Slade (2001).
Interpreting scores on the Kessler psycholigical distress scale (K10).
Heavy metal music and reckless behavior among adolescents.
London, Penguin Books.
Field, T., A. Martinez, et al.
(1998).
The performance of the K6 and K10 screening scales for psychological distres in Australian National Survey of Mental Health and Well-Begin.
Gantz, W., H. M. Gartenberg, et al.
Gowensmith, W. N. and L. J. Bloom (1997).
Journal of Youth and Adolescence 30(3): 321-332.
Suicide & Life-Threatening Behaviour 26: 68-70.
J. Lull.
Adolescence 23(90): 313-323.
North, A. C. and D. J. Hargreaves (2005).
(1998).
J. Lull.
Renegade Refrains.
415-430.
Steinberg, L. (1996).
(2000).
Young, R., H. Sweeting, et al.
This article reports on an investigation examining how successfully teenagers use music to influence their mood, based on a sample of 111 Australian older adolescents.
