16 Pop music in secondary education ...
Survey scores (individual) ...
Consequently, the results of the questionnaire and the statistical cal- culations are unsatisfactory.
3. Plant Hill Comprehensive, Manchester, where I had done my teaching practice during the aca- demic year 1965-66.
8. Appendix 2, section B. For explanation of with-it-ness, see footnote 46, page 17.
Even though I may have been aware of risks of offi- cialising pop (see pp.
Although the latter part of this opinion holds good today better music education can hardly be detrimental to anyone at any time , there are clear problems with the first part of the opinion, simply because many of us who work full time in 2001 have less, not more, leisure time than those who worked in similar jobs in 1966.
Emancipated from repetitive and menial chores, people could have been released into meaningful employment in the sports and arts, or in our health, transport and education services.
Moreo- ver, with the same amount of goods and services being produced by less people, enough resources could have been liberated to enable every one of us to pursue knowledge and happiness in our lives instead of being constant- ly forced to compete with each other for the dubious privilege of selling our labour.
9. For critique of rock canonisation, see P Tagg: Popular Music Studies versus the Other [www.tagg.org/articles/cascais.html] and Open Letter about Black Music [www.tagg.org/arti- cles/opelet.html].
The fact that it is necessary to account for this contradiction is in itself instructive: it emphasises the need to analyse the workings of capital- ism in relation to education and to the production of ideas with much greater rigour than I was able to muster in 1966.
It is in this light also worth considering the following observation from 1966.
10.
Ed., Manchester, 1966) Introduction Western civilisation is at the moment experiencing probably one of the greatest upheavals in its history.
It is on children of average academic level that our atten- tions will be centred, for it is they who will be most liable the soonest to receive even more cuts in the working week, as it is the kind of jobs for which they are currently being ed- 11.
13.See J F Dewhurst: Americas Needs and Resources (1958), p. 1053.
In many cases the social as- pect of being a devotee of contemporary music is even more extreme than that of a classical music fan.
Bartk, Britten, Hindemith, Stravinsky) presents real 14.
For example, many anthems written were also available as madrigals25 and vice-versa.
Tagg: Pop music in secondary education (1966): What is pop music?
A pop song or pop track is essentially any piece of music of approximately three minutes duration, usually issued as a 45 rpm single, or on an extended play disc, or on an LP.
Silbermann,29 dealing with behavioural tendencies in socio-musical groups suggests that loneliness and silence are overcome, almost therapeutically, with the aid of music.
Tagg: Pop music in secondary education (1966): What is pop music?
This stream of pop is available through the purchase of a transistor radio standard equip- ment for an affluent teenager.
Tagg: Pop music in secondary education (1966): What is pop music?
Pirate radio stations, television programmes like Top of the Pops and Ready Steady Go, magazines such as The New Musical Express, Boyfriend, Petticoat and many others are aimed at young people, mostly between the ages of thirteen and eighteen, or at subdivisions of that group.
The consumers do not necessarily belong to any particular class (like purchas- ers of BMC mini cars), and in this respect pop music can be seen as a great leveller: a Beatles LP can be the property of the daughter of a welder or of a senior accountant.
33.Report on BBCs Radio Newsreel, dealing with the financial year 1964-5.
Tagg: Pop music in secondary education (1966): What is pop music?
Tagg: Pop music in secondary education (1966): What is pop music?
Indeed, in Aristophanes Acharnians (c.450 BC), Athenian war veterans from the battle of Marathon (491 BC) bewail the apathy and sloth of the citys young people.
Pop music, or rather the aura and mystique surrounding pop music and culture is a convenient vehicle in which young people can manifest their emotional independence from their parents.
As will be seen, quite a reasonable degree of discrimination was found in the results of the survey, but it is surprising when one examines the way pop music is pre- sented, for example on radio and television.
There are very few long shots or panning shots, because the camera seems mostly to concentrate on close-ups of singers faces, taken sometimes from below the stage and looking upwards at them as if at a kind of mobile statue, using quick camera switches for brief cuts of the writhing limbs of 46.See questionnaire, section B, introduction.
Nevertheless, crises of the concert hall do occur when the audience becomes involved in social-group reaction.
given.
The argument here is: if there is so much interest in pop music both from the passive and active point of view (it is estimated that there is approximately one pop group, amateur or profes- sional, to every 3,000 of the population of England), and if pop music transcends the social barriers within the age group with which we are concerned, why do music educationalists con- tinue to ignore it as a possible source of help in the teaching of music?
55.Paris, Spring 1964, after appearance of The Beatles.
This trend would confirm the theory already put forward that social or even musical background plays little part in the teenagers general attitude to pop culture.
31), both in comparison with the same sections scores obtained by the first year a stream or the third year f stream, would seem to show that there may be some relation between age or intelligence and a high score in section C. On the other hand, with the excep- tion of the first year a stream, scores on section B are 63.See Loveday: Elementary Statistics (Cambridge University Press).
cit., p. 158.
It is not intended here to go into the analysis of certain pop records to prove examples of rhythmic or harmonic sophistication, or of insight into word setting.
Tagg: Pop music in secondary education (1966): Pop as a possible medium in secondary education 24 usually detect a greater degree of rhythmic and harmonic so- phistication creeping into their work.
(Writing cor anglais and flute gave 2 marks each, writing oboe and piccolo gave 1 mark each.
10.
Pop stars tend to lead a very exciting life : very true [4]; true [3]; middling [2]; false [1]; very false.
I watch Top of the Pops: always [3]; sometimes [2]; seldom [1]; never.
on the M6; a hit and run robbery; knocking down ten bowling pins with one ball [1]; a new type of American dance.
26.
I would describe this music [I Get Around by The Beach Boys] as: Liver- pool Sound; R&B; Rock; a ballad; folk; surfing sound [2]; Motown.
The group on this disc (Dont You Worry About Me by The Swinging Blue Jeans) is.....
10.
If I had the money, I would buy the following LP : The Sound of Music; The Pirates of Penzance; Out of our Heads [2]; West Side Story [1].
26.
