Music Teacher Education as Identity Construction BRIAN ROBERTS Introduction The research from which this report is extracted attempts to build a theory in the grounded tradition (Glaser &: Strauss, 1967) to account for the interaction of music education students in Canadian universities as they come to construct an identity as a musician.
The paper is based on a qualitative research initiative with data coming from participant observation and interviews with 108 students into the social world of music education students over a period of 36 months at five Canadian universities (Roberts, 1991a).
The assumption taken here is that the meaning of musician is a social construction (Berger &: Luckmann, 1966) for these students and that music education students interact on the basis of the meanings that they come to associate with this social construct.
It can be shown that this construct is a pivotal component of the music education students identity, in fact, an all-engulfing construct (Hargreaves, 1976, p.204) in the formation of their identity.
Music education students appear to acquire an identity as a musician which they seem to construct as having a core meaning performer', and this process of construction appears largely dependent upon social interaction in the fullest symbolic interactionist's and Meadean sense of both with other and with self.
This occurs most particularly through societal reaction <Roberts, 1991b).
Within the process of music teacher education in Canadian universities, however, what counts as musician is not as unproblematic as might be assumed, and there is generally Widespread disagreement in the literature as to the nature of the musician who eventually ends up as a teacher in front of our children in the schools.
Witkin (1974) suggests that one of the problems is that the music teacher is usually himself trained from the point of view of the instrumentalist (p.l20).
There is, he asserts, among music teachers, a fear and distrust of experiment, of musical invention, of anything that threatens the disciplined.
service to the musical masters that their training has developed in them.
He goes further when he writes Of all the arts that we have looked at in schools music is apparently in the greatest difficulty (p.118).
His suggestion is that many of these apparent difficulties in music education stem from the kind of training that music teachers undergo.
His conclusions hint strongly that there is conflict between who the teacher is and who he or she wants the pupils to be and what might be perceived as a more legitimate instructional goal for school mus: education.
As an aside, of course, the question may not be a simple matter of goal and may much more significantly be tied to what counts as music altogether; There are clear signs in the music school of a stratified knowledge where types of music and involvement in these various types of music have an almost precise hierarchy (Roberts, 1991c).
One university in this study, for example, claims that its goal for its music teacher preparation programme is to make musicians first, teachers second.
This motto is widely known and widely promulgated in the Faculty of Music.
One needs to ask, in light of the apparent gulf developing between music education as practised.
in the universities and music education as practised in the lower schools, just what meanings are taken into music education students understanding of musician', Int.
J.MusicEduc., 1991.
18,30-39 and what part this plays in their interaction with each other, with faculty and outsiders as they come to develop an identity as a musician.
This is the sociological problem.
Music Teacher Education <;:: Because of the jurisdictional variations among Canadian universities, the preparation of a music specialist in Canada cannot be easily described with a typical model.
While there is the semblance of a uniform programme of studies with the inclusion of courses in musicology, theory, performance and a variety of elective things within the house of music (Schmidt, 1989), there is a large variety of teacher preparation delivery systems for the music specialist.
These variations are largely jurisdictional within the university political make-up.
They do, however, consist of an otherwise unprecedented involvement of the academic unit (music) with the more usual mandate of education faculties (Roberts, 1986).
Some universities house the music teacher education programme in the Faculty of Education with academic input from the Music School or Faculty in much the same way as any other discipline such as Science or English.
At the other extreme, the Music Faculty has taken over virtually the entire process of teacher education.
In some institutions the situation is further confused because a few members of faculty may hold joint appointments in both the music division and the education division, thus wearing one hat at one time and yet another hat at another time.
It is this variety of preparation models that might lead an observer to the conclusion that, although the teacher- education curriculum is a relatively stable entity, the mode of delivery is sufficiently varied to create possible differences in product.
It is the intent here to argue that the social outcomes of the preparation of the music specialist can best be illuminated from a stance that recognizes the product of teacher education as a social product as well as a knowledge or skill-based product.
One might legitimately ask who these graduates are as well as just what they know.
If the curriculum content is substantively similar within institutions, the educational product must surely be differentiated not by what the student knows, but by who he is or thinks himself to be.
That is to say, that the social product may be just as, if not mote, important than the knowledge product that results from the music teacher education curriculum.
This is a question of identity, of meaning associated with a master status as musician and how that influences the processes -......./ of social interaction.
The involvement of Faculties of Music in teacher preparation remains an anomaly in Canada because no other university faculties in school curricular areas (e.g.
English, Mathematics, Science) have shown such substantial interest with the education discipline as distinct from their otherwise assumed academic expertise.
There has been little investigation as to the importance of setting or context for the development of an identity as teacher, but Faculties of Musk have been successful in convincing many university administrations that music and the study and teaching of music is somehow special and is dependent upon special knowledge and skills that are only available in a Faculty of Music setting.
As this process in the apparent drift of responsibilities from the typical mandate of education faculties continues, it takes no great amount of imagination to conclude that some groups of people representing one side come into conflict with groups from the other.
This view seems to correspond with the view of students and has been expressed by one American faculty member when she writes that The freshmen rknow are not primarily motivated by the desire to becomea teacher five years later, even if they have settled on teaching as a career plan.
They are concerned about getting first chair in the band, about gaining the respect of their peers and studio teachers by spending more time in the practice room than any other 31 