Edgar, Scott.
Utilizing democratic practices require teachers to entertain suggestions, ideas, and truths from their students (West, 2000).
Allsup (2007) suggests that schools, traditions, curricula, students, and teachers are domains of democracy.
Given the limited number of empirical research studies examining the state of democratic music teaching, not much is known about the democratic practices currently used.
Participants (N=189) were K-12 public school music ensemble directors in Pennsylvania who taught a performance ensemble as a credit bearing curricular offering.
Ensemble teachers were identified through the Pennsylvania Music Educators Association membership database.
The online questionnaire consisted of both forced- choice and open-ended questions.
Allsup, R. E. (2012a).
Music Educators Journal, 93(5), 52-56.
Teaching music as democratic practice.
British Journal of Music Education, 27(3), 225-239.
A critical ethnography of democratic music listening.
DOI: 10.1017/S0265051712000423.
In regards to expectations for the future, all students shared a desire to learn specific repertoires (e.g., jazz, pop, country, rap) or specific instrumental techniques in their programs.
Findings revealed one student assumed the role of director in both groups.
In recent decades, charter schools have emerged as an alternative to traditional public education in the United States.
Less than half of neighborhood schools surveyed offer music instruction during the school day.
Retrieved from: http://www.edreform.com/2012/01/annual-survey-of-americas-charter-schools-2010/ Bifulco, R., & Bulkley, K. (2008).
Charter schools.
New York, NY: Routledge.
Numerous socio-economic barriers (Kurt, 2012), parental support (Brous, 2012), peer influence and support (Tapscott, 2009) and gender-gap issues (Armstrong, 2008; Mims-Word, 2012) are but a few issues that exist when attempting to implement technology within classrooms.
In many clubs, members reflect a variety of nationalities, including native Hawaiians who wish to preserve and transmit the music of their homeland.
In order to better understand this particular phenomenon, this narrative case study examines the musical, social, and cultural underpinnings of the Kupuna Island Strummers, a ukulele club in the southern United States, and will be based on inferences derived from qualitative research techniques conducted with club members and their organizers.
Music educators work to foster development of life-long music makers and appreciators, and influences on student participation in music programs have long been a focus of researchers.
Surveys were administered and returned during the spring (2013) semester.
Is there a link between types of high school music experience and the desire to continue to play?
Music educators should strive to motivate all students, regardless of degree path, toward lifelong music making.
Participants (N = 2,933) were students enrolled at 95 colleges and universities from 37 states.
The lack of participant ethnic diversity warrants further discussion.
Overnight Summer Music Camp and the Impact on its Youth: A Case Study.
Why rural matters 2007: the realities of rural education growth.
In-service music teachers perceptions of professional development.
By understanding how students naturally interact with music outside of school, music educators may create a more relevant curriculum that encourages participation beyond the classroom.
With this in mind, I will explore high school music students musical participation in and outside of school and their plans to continue musical participation after graduation.
Journal of Research in Music Education, 56(1), 68-81.
Music Educators National Conference, Opportunity-to-Learn Standards for Music Instruction: Grades PreK-12 (Reston, VA: Music Educators National Conference, 1994) Regelski, T. (2007).
General Music Today, 17(2), 28-31.
Hazing in the College Marching Band: An Exploratory Study.
In the college marching band, tradition is tantamount to pride, and for its members it is necessary that the traditions of the band continue year to year.
VanWeelden, Kimberly.
Effects of music with video on responses of nonmusic majors: An exploratory study.
The purpose of this study was to identify factors among undergraduate non-music majors influencing discontinuation in school music programs from the elementary to college level.
Results from the survey indicated participation percentages as follows: elementary, 80.2%; middle school, 53.3%, high school 31.7%, and college, 5.6%.
McKeage, K. (2004).
Drake University, Des Moines, IA.
Achievement is group-oriented and does not necessarily center on individual student-centered learning.
In addition to questions regarding demographics and high school participation, Likert-style questions addressed the influence of parents, teachers and friends, as well as the perceived benefits of participation.
The investigation also measured interest regarding desired participation beyond the traditional curricular large ensemble.
