The Transactions are also published on the School of Education website http://www.bangor.ac.uk/addysg MUSIC EDUCATION in the PRIMARY SCHOOL The Early Stages In broad terms, primary education in Wales has developed in parallel with England, except where cultural and language differences have called for separate attention.
The practice of teaching singing by rote became officially established.
The latter should include: the teaching of instruments or solo singing theory.
Out of this grew the present system of grading.
National folk songs from each home country became the basis of school song books (Cox, 1992).
The Kodaly concept led to greater understanding of music and music teaching.
Both the University and the Welsh National Council of Music promoted hundreds of concerts throughout Wales in collaboration with colleges, schools, religious institutions and the Eisteddfod.
By 1953, the Central Advisory Council for Education (Wales), was able to report that further significant improvements in music education in Wales had taken place.
The introduction to schools of the Percussion Band Movement did much to make children familiar with art music.
However, there were still no opportunities to create their own music or to play music from cultures other than those which comprised the European classical tradition.
Schools radio programmes on appreciation during this period were also aligned with the classical tradition.
In the 1960s the Singing Together and Time and Tune radio programmes introduced children to some ethnic music in the form of singing calypsos.
Schools were more inclined to teach children vocal, choral and instrumental music that was Germanic rather than African, and French rather than Asian-Indian.
The ideal of enriching pupils lives by developing their inherent musicality was, of course, not unique (see, for example, the work of Kodaly and Dalcroze).
In the Music education in the primary school 7 view of one African educationalist (Amoaku, 1982: 118), the Orff Schulwerk approach to music education sought to fuse the principles of Western and African traditions.
In tune with the times, the Plowden Report (DES, 1967a) recommended the adoption of two aspects of musical creativity which were an official recognition of the direction in which music education was going.
In retrospect, one might regard it as a forerunner to the National Curriculum of 1992.
The musical experiences of all cultures have many things in common, especially in musical processes.
With the influx of ethnic-minority pupils into primary schools, many education authorities introduced community projects which involved pupils working with professional musicians.
This was the first time that this term had appeared in an official curriculum document.
Their 1989 report dealt with curriculum development in music education and suggested ways of giving effect to existing policies of multicultural education in the arts curriculum.
The latter relied almost exclusively on the Western classical tradition, a view criticised by leading musicians such as the conductor Simon Rattle and the composer Pierre Boulez.
When the revised proposals appeared the attainment targets had been reduced to three, and the Secretary of State demanded further simplifications.
The Working Group was at serious odds with intended government policies and the National Curriculum Council.
Music education in the primary school 11 At this juncture the Curriculum Council for Wales broke ranks and threw its weight behind the Working Group.
No other subject in the National Curriculum had gone through such upheavals.
Wales needed an active Music curriculum, which specifically included Welsh music.
In the section on Perspectives on Music Education the document states that it is important that all pupils, wherever they live in Wales and whatever their ethnic or cultural roots, should experience music from a variety of cultures.
With these new initiatives, the standard of achievement in music by pupils in schools throughout Wales should be greatly improved.
These opportunities should enable pupils at Key Stages 1 and 2 not only to develop their musical skills but also to develop their communication skills through the use and application of information technology and through personal and social education.
This added dimension to their music education should give pupils a sound foundation on which to build for their future development.
It is part of our lives and enriches our everyday experiences in thinking and feeling.
Both teachers and pupils will continue to learn because this is part of the human condition.
8. What constitutes a broad and balanced music curriculum that covers a range of styles and traditions, reflecting the National Curriculum programmes of study?
Cardiff: The Welsh Office.
London: Cassell Education.
International Music Education, ISME Yearbook XIII, 111-118.
Cox, G. (1992) Towards the National Songbook: the History of an Idea.
DES (1967a) Children and their Primary School.
London: HMSO.
London: HMSO.
London: HMSO.
DES and Welsh Office (1991) The Nature of Music.
Dobbs, J.P.B.
19- 45.
Cardiff: HMSO.
Cardiff: HMSO.
