The findings reveal that in spite of district and state curricular expectations, music instruction is scant.
Interestingly, these cuts often coincide with new, statewide requirements for rigorous arts curricula.[ 3] The questions central to this paper are: What happens to music instruction when delegated to classroom teachers?
Until the profession can more clearly diagnose the reason for this discrepancy, research into specific aspects of general music . . . is basically useless.
In Danville, Washington School housed 820 students in grades 2-5 as well as most of the special programs in the Danville district and 60 certified faculty.
Altogether I spent 120 hours in Danville and 120 hours in Chicago during a full school year.
The school day has just begun.
Accompanying herself with simple, sturdy tonic-dominant chords, she sings: Springtime is garden time.
More suggestions include hot and cold Olson cautions: Let's not only talk about the weather.
Planting time......
What season is swimming?
Summer.
Chris suggests morning.
Spring time is park time, isn't it?
Ring Around the Rosie or Hokey Pokey").
They are asked to insert their traveling adjective into the song.
Out of the thirty-nine classroom teachers interviewed and the twentythree teachers observed in all three schools, only two or three kindergarten teachers (who had some musical training) included music regularly in their curriculum.
An eighth-grade teacher summarized her perception of classroom teachers teaching music: We can't have the classroom teachers teach music because they don't have the background, and they are not interested.
Classroom teachers were reluctant to teach music, more reluctant than they were to teach visual arts.
Lack of expertise interacted with teacher ability to draw on curricular organizers such as music textbooks or the use of a curricular guide provided by the district.
Listening 1:30.
Ms. McClure stands near the door: Everybody, I want you calm and quiet.
She puts a record on the record player.
1:36.
The theme of music as a background activity repeats itself across grade and ability levels.
And that's the one time when you don't say don't talk, but keep it down, keep it low.
Of course, that doesn't always work because they want to talk.
At one time, music was piped during lunchtime from the office throughout the building, classrooms, and halls.
Sometimes, the lack of guidance was presented as a part of an anti-elitist credo.
I don't have to know a lot about music.
The regularity and quality of music in Harrison's class, as well as the receptivity of kindergarten- aged children, contributed to their attentiveness and willingness to experience music.
As in the accountability theme, what can't be fully articulated isn't acknowledged in the formal documents, and when it isn't documented it is likely to be ignored.
School Programs Music was a regular part of festive holiday productions, in Christmas and spring productions, opening and concluding honor programs.
Edna Rice, the social science eighth-grade teacher, who had a music background and conducted an afterschool music club, told me about last year's holiday: We caroled in the hallways, and the kids really liked that.
Alicia Fernandez, a second-grade teacher, touches on the tension between the goals of learning academics and the need for self-expression, an issue touched by many others: You almost feel pressured to keep the children advanced enough in their reading and math, and at the same time, meet their other needs, needs that they have to express themselves in other ways.
All teachers talked about what I call vertical pressure, which came from principals and superintendents.
Sometimes it's comforting to hear about other people in the same spot but at the same time, there are always a few who like to stick it at you.
My children are on page such and such and my children do this and my children do that.
When they get your kids, they put you down.
So I think about Joe and I think about all the behavioral and socialization problems Joe had last year.
And no matter how I feel or what I think about Joe, it puts pressure on me.
The low priority of the arts within the school was manifested in the low budgets allocated to it.
Stripped of its intellectual substance, music does not share in the school's primary values of knowledge.
Notes 1. Conducted under the auspices of the National Center for Arts Education Research and funded by the National Endowment of the Arts.
11 3. Illinois State Board of Education, Department of School Improvement Services, State Goals for Learning and Sample Learning Objectives: Fine Arts (Springfield, Ill.: Illinois State Board of Education, 1985).
10.
15.
ed. Hugh Curtler (New York: Haven, 1983), 15-29; and E. Kaelin, Art and Existence: A Phenomenological Aesthetics (Cranbury, N.J.: Associated University Press, 1970).
