.......................................
88 5.1.2 How many music specialists are teaching in Victorian primary schools?
94 5.2 Pre-service teacher training for primary classroom teachers ....................................
98 Additional opportunities for pre-service teachers to study music?......
116 6.2.1 Current funding under the Instrumental Music Program ...............................
127 Figure 24: Western Australias School of Instrumental Music ......................................
This report on the Education and Training Committees Inquiry into the Extent, Benefits and Potential of Music Education in Victorian Schools represents the considered synthesis of the Inquirys rich harvest of information and opinion.
15.
At the moment lack of skills and confidence are major barriers to classroom teachers teaching music as part of the curriculum.
Teachers in rural and regional areas can find it difficult to access professional learning activities.
There is a need to ensure greater consistency and accountability between the Department of Education and Early Childhood Development regions with respect to allocating Instrumental Music Program funding.
Music is [pivotal] to their successful academic outcomes.79 Case study one illustrates how music education benefited one of the students at Mildura Specialist School.
15.
136 See for example Blackburn High School, Submission 3, 1; Bentleigh Secondary College, Submission 58, 3. Chapter 3: An overview of school music education in Victoria 41 Most of the secondary schools participating in this Inquiry mandate the study of music in Year 7 and/or 8. However, Dr Lierse, who spoke to the Committee in her capacity as Chair of the School Music Action Group, indicated that it is becoming more common for music to be offered as an elective in the early secondary years: Anecdotal evidence shows that an increasing number of schools are placing music and the arts within a package of elective subjects which also include food technology subjects, sport, photography and perhaps the arts as well.
Victorian schools are also increasingly utilising technology to enhance the provision of music education (see figure 11).
In Years 8 to 10 music is offered as an elective.
The school also has an instrumental music program.
The children have developed a strong relationship with their MSO mentors and a love of music, and their classroom teachers have reported improved focus, self-confidence, gross and fine motor skills and behaviour.168 Parents of students at the school told the Committee that learning an instrument has had many positive impacts on their children.
We run the professional development from our centre, but also provide support through our staff.
We always have to borrow spaces from other departments such as Drama and PE We dont have [our] own space.207 Several stakeholders identified the need for more musical equipment in their schools and also funding to maintain current equipment.208 The Committee heard that access to the right technology or instruments can be costly for schools.
These two initiatives will play an important role in supporting the practical implementation of the strategy in Victoria.
He explained there is significant scope to integrate the teaching of the various art forms: One of the advantages that the AusVELS provides is that under a more rigid curriculum approach which separated out the Arts disciplines they would then be treated in schools as separate disciplines.
Accordingly, the Committee recommends that the Victorian Government develops a guide to support schools to deliver a sequential and in-depth music education from Foundation to Year 10.
At the moment lack of skills and confidence are major barriers to classroom teachers teaching music as part of the curriculum.
Teachers in rural and regional areas can find it difficult to access professional learning activities.
These are the continual tensions that we have.330 The evidence to the Inquiry also suggests that the availability of specialist music teachers is an additional factor which impacts on the ability of rural and regional primary schools to employ a specialist music teacher.
The majority of the evidence to the Inquiry weighed in favour of music being taught by a specialist music teacher at the primary level.
330 Mr Jack Fisher, Principal, Oakleigh Primary School, Transcript of evidence, Melbourne, 6 May 2013, 4. See also Ms Gabrielle Leigh, President, Victorian Principals Association, Transcript of evidence, Melbourne, 6 May 2013, 2; Mr Ian Sloane, Principal, Mitcham Primary School, Transcript of evidence, Melbourne, 6 May 2013, 3; Ms Yvonne Madden, Principal, Irymple Primary School, Transcript of evidence, Mildura, 1 May 2013, 8. 331 Heinrich, The provision of classroom music programs to regional Victorian primary schools: A mixed methods study, thesis for Master of Education, La Trobe University (2012), 114.
The Committee suggests that the Victorian Government considers offering incentives or additional support to attract existing teachers into this course.
For example, Professor David Forrest, Professor of Music Education at RMIT University, told the Committee that, although RMIT University offers 30 hours of music education to its primary teaching students, he did not believe this was enough time to cover the breadth of material that needs to be taught.362 Similarly, the Australian Catholic University, which offers two music education units in its primary teaching course, submitted: Although the two units of study in music education appear to be more hours than [that] offered by many other universities, there is still much that is not covered in this time; some students feel under-prepared or lack confidence to teach music.363 Comparisons were also made to the level of music education provided to pre-service teachers in educationally high performing countries.
The Australian Catholic University explained that, like schools, universities struggle with a crowded curriculum: Due to the crowded pre-service teacher education curriculum, there are insufficient hours available to allocate to helping students develop appropriate competency and confidence.369 The Committee wrote to the VIT requesting its views on whether a minimum requirement for music education could be introduced into pre-service primary teacher education courses in Victoria.
Musica Viva is currently trialing the provision of professional learning at regional centres through interactive video hubs.
For example, the School Music Action Group praised the professional learning activities provided by aMuse to Victorian teachers.379 Similarly, Dr Anne Lierse, who made a submission on behalf of teachers from the music Department at Melbourne High School, submitted: 375 Mr Mark OLeary, Victorian Branch President, Kodly Music Education Institute of Australia, Transcript of evidence, Melbourne, 16 May 2013, 3-4.
The Committee recommends that that the Victorian Government supports increased professional learning opportunities for primary classroom teachers and specialist music teachers in primary and secondary schools in rural and regional Victoria and provides support for teachers to attend.
These resources contain lessons which develop skills in listening, singing, playing, moving and composition.417 The Song Room has been commissioned by the Australian Government to provide online arts resources for The Australian Curriculum: The Arts.
For example, the Australian College of Educators submitted: The level of guidance apparent in the draft Australian curriculum in the Arts is inadequate to assist schools design detailed music courses for all year levels.
The Committee also believes that VCAAs planned work to showcase how schools can integrate the Arts into the curriculum will help support schools to build stronger music education programs.
421 Dr David Howes, General Manager, Curriculum, Victorian Curriculum and Assessment Authority, Transcript of evidence, Melbourne, 27 March 2013, 9. 113 Chapter 6: Strengthening instrumental music in Victorian schools Key findings 37.
There is a need to ensure greater consistency and accountability between the Department of Education and Early Childhood Development regions with respect to allocating Instrumental Music Program funding.
They do not want something that is going to be very expensive in terms of having to buy a whole range of instruments.429 The Association of Music Educators (aMuse), a professional association of music educators, has been encouraging primary classroom teachers to sing regularly with their students through its professional learning program, the Singing Classroom (see case study seven in chapter five).
This is most disappointing since the population in Southern Region has increased markedly.
This enables the school to provide instrumental music lessons at no cost to students in Years 9 to 12.442 Figure 22: Music budget at Blackburn High School (2013)443 Funding sources $371,219 Instrumental Music Program funding $270,000 Parent levies $641,219 Total Total program cost $706,083 Budget deficit $64,864 A number of Inquiry participants observed that the funding pressures on schools have also led some schools to increase the size of instrumental music classes, which in turn has an impact on the quality of the teaching.
Regional arrangements vary from a team of coordinators undertaking transparent and equitable auditing processes, to no coordination at all.479 Similarly, Dr Mary Cannon, Principal of Canterbury Girls Secondary College, submitted, There seems to be differences between the way in which funds are allocated across regions and the lack of consistency is an issue.480 Mr Ludowyke of Melbourne High School suggested moving towards a central allocation model for instrumental music funding, questioning the need to retain the regional model given the inconsistencies and lack of transparency or accountability for IMT allocation that has occurred across regions.481 The Committee is of the view that the regional approach to allocating Instrumental Music Program funding is working well and should be retained.
The Committee notes that some of the previous DEECD regions had excellent systems in place which could be very useful in informing the development of new state-wide criteria for funding allocation.
There may also be some scope to investigate the use of Recognition of Prior Learning in expediting an instructors progress through teacher education courses.509 Other stakeholders recommended providing a fast-tracked teaching qualification for instrumental music teachers.
It requires fully accredited members to have completed an approved course of music study and have taught music for at least three years.
This impacts upon their overall budget and cuts may have been needed in other areas in order for the school to pay my wages.537 DEECD noted that there are alternative ways for handling the situation of an instrumental music teacher found to be in excess of requirements.
The school is operated by the state Department of Education and provides the following services to schools, school clusters and districts: consultancy in planning and developing school music programs instrumental instruction and ensemble direction instrumental staffing allocation and management an instrument loan, maintenance and repair service a resource centre which includes an extensive collection of music and music education resources enrichment activities for students.
552 Mr Frank Sal, President, Victorian Association of State Secondary Principals, Transcript of evidence, Melbourne, 6 May 2013, 5. 553 Ms Yolande van Oosten, Submission 97, 4. 145 Conclusion In this report the Committee sets out a vision for ensuring that all Victorian students have the opportunity to experience a sequential and in-depth music education at school.
This vision is grounded in the Committees belief that music is a unique and intrinsically important art form.
Department of Education and Early Childhood Development (Victoria), Towards Victoria as a learning community (2012).
School Music Action Group, Victorian music workshop report (2007).
Vaughn, Kathryn, Music and mathematics: Modest support for the oft-claimed relationship (2000) 34(3/4) Journal of Aesthetic Education 149.
Victorian Parliament Education and Training Committee, Inquiry into education of gifted and talented students (2011).
