The National Association for Music Education advanced the need for improvisation in school music curricula with their publication of National Standards (MENC, 1994).
More recently, the Partnership for 21 st Century Skills (2004)a group formed within the community of general education to promote skills and knowledge for future successreaffirmed the need for students to develop skills in critical thinking, communication, collaboration, and creativity.
While researchers have painted a clear picture regarding attitudes and abilities of inservice music teachers, less is known about perceptions of preservice educators.
Will current music education majors report similar concerns, or have recent publications and teaching strategies helped to change perceptions?
3) How interested or motivated are they in learning more about how to teach improvisation?
4) Are there differences in confidence among music education majors by year in school?
5) Are there differences in confidence among music education majors by primary instrument?
Comparisons of confidence in teaching improvisation by year in school and primary instrument will be determined using a two-way multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA), with year in school (four levels) and primary instrument (six levels) serving as independent variables, and achievement standard means for K-4, 5-8, and 9-12 serving as dependent variables.
Implications for practice and further research will be suggested.
References Azzara, C. D. (2002).
In R. Colwell & C. Richardson (Eds.) The new handbook of research on music teaching and learning (pp.
Beginning the dialogue: Teachers respond to the National Standards in music.
Brophy, T. S. (2002).
Toward improving music teacher education.
Byo, S. J. (1999).
Journal of Research in Music Education, 47(2), 111-123.
Feldman, E., & Contzius, A. (2011).
Instrumental music education: Teaching with the musical and practical in harmony.
New York, NY: Routledge.
Strategies for teaching strings: Building a successful string and orchestra program.
Free to be musical.
Confidence in teaching improvisation according to the K-12 achievement standards.
MENC: The National Association for Music Education.
(1994).
(2004).
Retrieved February 19, 2011 from http://www.p21.org/ Riveire, J. H. (1997).
(Doctoral dissertation, University of Southern California.) Dissertations Abstracts International, 59-05, 1504-A.
Wilson, C. C. (2003).
The National Standards for Music Education: Awareness of, and attitudes toward, by secondary music educators in Missouri.
