Theories of gender identity and development Accounts of gender have tended to draw a distinction between (biological) sex, on the one hand (a distinction between male and female, based on differences in chromosomes and the genitals), and socially constructed gender on the other (masculine and femi- nine, i.e. the characteristics and behaviour ascribed to each of the sexes).
One view of gender development is that biological factors predispose boys and girls to behave in certain ways and to have certain predispositions for learning.
aggressiveness) and that the operation of natural and sexual selection has resulted in genetic predispositions of men towards aggression and of women towards nurturing.
With the emergence of feminist theory in the 1970s, and anthropological and psycho- logical data on the variability of gender roles and behaviour, the role of social factors became increasingly recognized.
This theory relies on the concept of identification: this is the idea that children spontaneously imitate behaviour without direct training or reward based on an intimate relationship with the person being imitated, although there is also evidence that children imitate adult models even when not directly reinforced for doing soimitating models who are themselves reinforced (Bandura, 1977).
Cognitivedevelopmental theory (Kohlberg, 1966, 1969) argues that childrens attitudes and beliefs about gender roles guide their interaction with the environment, i.e. they GENDER IDENTITY AND MUSIC 119 watch and imitate same-sex models because they are aware that that is what someone of the same sex as themselves does, and they come to value gender-appropriate aspects of themselves positively.
According to this perspective, identification is an outcome of gender typing, not a cause of it.
However, some critics increasingly doubt there are any core premises from which gender derives: recent research casts doubt on the idea of male/female as a biological absolute opposite and argues that it is a convenient social construct (Kaplan and Rodgers, 1990; Birke, 1992).
Judith Butler goes even further in her critique arguing that not only is sex as culturally constructed as gender, but that there may be no distinction between sex and gender at all (Butler, 1990, p. 7).
From the perspective of performative theories of gender, engagement in musical practices may construct and sustain individual or collective identity.
Indeed, feminist scholars have argued that male musicians have compensated for this by emphasizing the rational in music, claiming objectivity and transcendence for it, and prohibiting female participa- tion (McClary, 1991).
It is therefore necessary to look at the way in which gender is enacted in particular musical, historical and cultural contexts.
For example, womens involvement in domestic music-making in the 18th century (such as playing keyboards as an accompaniment to singing) is congruent with womens associ- ation with the private rather than public spheres; and the association of women with nature and the body has made singing a more acceptable activity than some other instruments more associated with technology.
Although participation in music in Western cultures is now apparently equally available to men and women, large discrep- ancies still exist in the extent to which different kinds of musical activities are engaged in.
Distinctions between the kinds of musical practices men and women engage in also exist in many other cultures (Koskoff, 1987).
One area of study of the operation of gendered musical practices and meanings has been in the school music classroom.
As Green notes, girls are not just learning music but negotiating a gender identity, and classical music in school provides an affirmation of gender for girls in the form of a safe and private form of display.
Studies of the kinds of instruments boys and girls (age 910 years) would like to play found gender differences, with boys preferring drums, guitar and trumpet, and girls preferring flute, piano and violin (ONeill and Boulton, 1996).
Childrens gender-stereotyped beliefs about musical instruments (and behaviour) have been interpreted within the framework of gender typing, i.e. that these stereo- types form part of gender role development.
Indeed, Green reports that secondary school teachers interviewed about childrens involvement in musical activities in school observed both boys and girls engaging in a restriction of musical activities to gender-stereotyped behaviour (Green, 1993).
In addition, because they have different roles within the family and community, they are also expected to have different roles as singers and to address different themes within the songs.
Musical taste and gender identity Taste in music (musical consumption) is viewed within Western culture as personal and as an important way in which we define ourselves and others, because music is cul- turally positioned as an expressive and affective medium.
Dancing is the only out-of-home leisure activity that women engage in more than men (who are more likely to attend a sporting event, attend live concerts and visit the cinema; Central Statistical Office General Household Surveys 19721986, cited in Thornton, 1995, p. 103).
A preference for love songs, romantic popular music and dancing exhibited by young girls has been attributed to an emphasis within female culture on finding a husband and establishing a home (Frith, 1983; McRobbie, 2000).
Distinctions between male and female musical tastes can be interpreted in terms of the maintenance of a positive social identity.
The music provides extra-musical information on which social judgements are made, and this information is used to form a positive evaluation of an adolescents own group in order to maintain a positive social identity.
For example, the musical tastes of females are often decried by the media: in the UK, young girls fandom of boy and girl bands is ridiculed and the bands are criticized for artificiality and banality and juxtaposed to the authenticity of rock (perceived as a male domain).
Within this larger social context, it may be difficult for female tastes to affirm a positive social identity since the access to power and resources to define value in the public realm is held primarily by males.
Like Green (1997), Richards study of adolescents musical tastes found that boys and girls differentiate themselves in terms of musical preferences.
Richards argues for the need to consider tastes in music as features of discourse rather than in terms of a more abstracted relationship between the formal characteristics of music and particular subjectivities (Richards, 1998, p. 172).
There is further evidence from ethnographic studies that musics role in identity con- struction is influenced by social context.
An ethnographic study by DeNora on the use of music in the lives of British and American women found that music was a significant resource in womens remembering and emotional life (DeNora, 2000, pp.
7273).
Thus, the kind of music collected, the way collections are used and the act of collect- ing itself appear to have a gendered basis as part of the way in which a range of musical beliefs, acts and preferences mark gender difference.
However, just as in other forms of cultural representation, music not only provides a way of marking and enacting gender, it also presents models of gender.
A count of the number of representations of men and women in musical activities reveals many inequalities: for example, a study of representations of men and women in popular music television, radio and magazines in the UK during the 1980s and 1990s revealed that more men than women were represented overall, and that when women were featured it was as vocalists rather than as instrumentalists (Bayton, 1998).
Analysis of music videos shows gender role stereotyping of occu- pational roles and behaviours in which male characters are more adventurous, assertive and aggressive than females, and in which females are more affectionate, dependent and nurturing (Seidman, 1992; Sommersflanagan et al., 1993).
However, represen- tations do not simply produce meanings through which we make sense of the world; the social constructionist perspective adopted here argues that representations create the possibilities of what we are, constructing places from which individuals position themselves.
This section considers both the signifying practices and symbolic forms through which gendered meanings are produced in music, and the subject positions it offers.
There are a number of possible sources of gendered meanings in music: for example, the influence of role models engaging in particular kinds of musical activity, the discourse surrounding music and musics accompanying texts, lyrics and images.
It has been argued that the texts and other visual images accompanying musical practices (e.g.
McClarys comparison of the delineation of Orfeo and Euridice in Monteverdis opera LOrfeo illustrates how the contrast between Orfeos rhetorical power and Euridices simplicity and innocence is constructed through tonalharmonic means (McClary, 1991, pp.
In Orfeos aria Rosa del ciel, he commands the sun be still and listen to him and his rhetorical power derives from the ability of his song to arouse the expectations and channel the desires of listeners.
Orfeo presents a paradox for Western conceptions of masculinity: on the one hand he must sing to demonstrate his rhetorical skill and mastery, yet this elaborate display is precisely what threatens to undermine his masculinity.
