27 Andrew...............................................................................................................
32 Introductory discussions.........................................................................................
35 Absolute Pitch ........................................................................................................
36 Definitions of AP ...............................................................................................
37 The perceived value of AP.................................................................................
60 Appendix B. Tertiary Participant Information Statement ......................................
This qualitative study will explore the perceptions of individual students within the Sydney Conservatorium of Music through in-depth interviews, focusing on absolute pitch, the value of possessing this ability, and the implications for how advanced musicians perceive their musical abilities (music self-concept).
From the study of the music self-concept of Conservatorium students and their views on absolute pitch, this study aims to demystify the 2 phenomenon in terms of the value of the ability for Conservatorium students.
Through studying the achievement expectations of the students, the study aims to investigate the ways students construct their self-concepts and identity around their musical abilities, and the influence of family and peer interactions on these constructs.
Thesis structure Chapter 2 reviews the literature related to absolute pitch, self-concept and identity.
Definitions This study will refer to four main terms; Absolute pitch, Relative pitch, Self-concept and Identity.
A related term that appears frequently in AP research literature is relative pitch (RP), which is the ability to name one pitch if given the name of another (Justus & Bharucha, 2002).
The difficulty in diagnosing AP is compounded by a lack of consensus in an acceptable rate of accuracy in an AP possessor.
Some studies (particularly the earliest studies) stress that a particular genetic predisposition is required or that AP is an inherited ability (Bachem, 1940).
3. Cognitive Style The research on cognitive style is often supported by evidence of the high proportion of AP among individuals with genetic based cognitive deficit syndromes such as Williamss syndrome and autism.
This raises the question of the implications for students who do not possess these abilities.
13 Contemporary self-concept research.
One of the most notable of these models was proposed by Shavelson et al.
A student whose best subject is mathematics will have a higher mathematics self-concept than other students who are equally good at mathematics but even better at other subjects (Marsh & Hattie, 1996, p. 65).
In Eriksons theory, an adolescent must experience a period of role experimentation in the attempt to reach the stage of identity achievement, which usually means having achieved a coherent sense of ones sexual identity, vocational direction and ideological world-view (Atkinson et al., 2000, p. 103).
It is a rare ability, however the reported prevalence is based on tests which require pitch labelling; a skill associated with musical training.
6).
However, the responses do not provide information regarding the length of time these individuals can retain such pitch information in memory.
The Secondary students tended to be very specific in their expression of the required skills.
However, given the highly articulate responses provided by these students, the difference may be more closely related to contrasting values reinforced through teaching and learning at the two schools.
Marina Secondary AP In contrast, some responses from the RP groups highlighted a more cynical attitude towards the ability.
Dana Tertiary RP Most of the piano players, at least the good piano players- the piano majors, have perfect pitch.
Theyll sing notes and say Whats this note?
A number of students felt that they did not meet the standard of performance required at the Conservatorium, but referred to another area of study at which they excel.
Jasper Tertiary RP The idea of a Conservatorium standard was also raised in conversations at the High school.
Ally Secondary AP 46 The construction of identity through the Conservatorium experience A number of the tertiary participants referred to a point in their music study at the Conservatorium when they began to reassess their goals in music, according to their perceived abilities.
The musical identities of these individuals appear to have been altered through their experiences at the Conservatorium, and some of these students mentioned that they realised that they are not suited to a career as a solo performer, or felt the need to set more realistic goals (cf.
Most of the participants have been heavily involved in music from an early age, and some admitted to being the musical one in the family (cf.
My friends outside of the Con always say she goes to the Con, shes a freak at music.
This awareness reveals that students have learnt a great deal about the ability through experience and informal interactions with fellow students and teachers.
The results of the pitch survey highlighted some contradictions between the participants opinions about AP and their self-perceived aural abilities.
Many of the RP participants responses suggest that they have an advanced level of aural skill, akin to AP possession, which reinforces the ambiguity in diagnosing an AP possessor (cf.
AP possession seems to be a fundamental attribute of the identity of the AP participants in this study.
The level of interest in AP demonstrated by these students is clearly context-specific, given that AP could be described as a phenomenon of Western construction.
Research Studies in Music Education, 12, 3037.
Marsh, H. W., & Hattie, J. (1996).
Moulton, P., Moulton, M., Housewright, M., & Bailey, K. (1998) Gifted & talented: Exploring the positive and negative aspects of labelling.
Parncutt, R., & Levitin, D.J.
Newbury Park, CA: Sage.
The aim of this study is to provide Conservatorium teachers with detailed information regarding the way Conservatorium students view Absolute Pitch and their overall musical ability and how this view may influence their motivation and progress in music study.
Any persons with concerns or complaints about the conduct of a research study can contact the Manager, Ethics Administration, University of Sydney on (02) 9351 4811.
The aim of this study is to provide Conservatorium teachers with detailed information regarding the way Conservatorium students view Absolute Pitch and their overall musical ability and how this view may influence their motivation and progress in music study.
Any persons with concerns or complaints about the conduct of a research study can contact the Manager, Ethics Administration, University of Sydney on (02) 9351 4811.
I understand that audio recordings will only be used for the purpose of this research study, participants will retain copyright over the recorded material and the names of participants will remain confidential.
I understand that audio recordings will only be used for the purpose of this research study, participants will retain copyright over the recorded material and the names of participants will remain confidential.
Interview topics Interviews conducted with Conservatorium High School and tertiary students will cover the following topics: Musical Background and experience - Current age and age when started musical training - Musical experience of family members - Extent of music training - Future goals in music and in general - Plans made to achieve goals - Hobbies and interests Absolute Pitch - Definitions of the ability - How Absolute Pitch is attained - Perceived value/benefits of Absolute Pitch possession - Perceived prevalence of Absolute Pitch among fellow students - Perceived importance of Absolute Pitch possession in Conservatorium study - Perceived disadvantages of Absolute Pitch possession Self-concept - Self-reported ability in music performance, composition, musicology - Self-reported ability overall in music - Self-concept in areas other than music (physical, social, intellectual and emotional) 
