After several processes of inductive research it was concluded that widespread changes in the whole primary PE provision, starting from Initial Teacher Education, ought to be considered.
Coupled with this is the relatively recent change in government which has far reaching implications for primary PE.
Therefore, the continuation of physical activity provides both short and long term health benefits as regular exercise encourages positive health behaviours into adulthood.
Additionally, the Physical Education, School Sport and Club Links Strategy (PESSCL), which was the precursor to the PE Sports Strategy for Young People (PESSYP), claimed Professional Development as one of its eight programmes, which was supposed to offer opportunities and support for teachers to gain the expertise they need to offer high quality PE (DCMS, 2003).
This aspiration has further blurred the boundaries between PE and sports coaching.
The outcome of recent government changes in this area indicate that it is likely that schools may return to a pre PESSCL situation.
Lyle (2002:10) added even more depth to this debate, claiming a situation has developed over time in which PE teaching and [sports] coaching were regarded as synonymous', a position which, it could be argued, did JPD2(3): 40 not help the professionalism of teaching.
Moreover, evidence drawn from an interview with a head of primary ITE for this paper, confirmed primary trainees received no training whatsoever on classroom management and organisation in a PE environment, an area recognised as very important to PE teachers.
While it is clear from the evidence of the primary research that sports coaching and the teaching of PE are two distinct professions that are not synonymous, an increasing body of literature supports the view that they are also becoming more symbiotic (Cassidy et al, 2008).
Educators and coaches can learn from each other; educators and coaches can learn from athletes.
The athletes [and pupils] are the ones who benefit from this sharing of ideas.
. . . No one has all the answers, but through conversations observations we can learn from each other.
Primary Physical Education Armstrong and Welsman (1997) still believe that for people to have a positive experience and appreciation of physical activity, the best vehicle for delivering it is during primary physical education.
This appears to be a high level of unqualified teaching staff delivering in curriculum time.
This position is supported by Sloan (2010:269) who alleges that a lack of belief in personal ability to teach PE should come as JPD2(3): 41 no great surprise as they [primary teachers] are non- specialists and are required to teach it often after very few hours of training.
He further claimed, I know of other schools where when they have coaches in they [the staff] are off, and they use it as an additional PPA time.
The head teacher believed the use of coaches was good because the pupils received high quality sport and PE delivery, but in terms of CPD that member of staff would never see any progression in their teaching of that subject.
Equally surprising was that the specialist PE teacher interviewed had the same reservations.
This view is supported by Griffiths et al (2009) who claimed 40% of primary school teachers indicated that the PE component of their initial teacher training was not effective enough to prepare them for delivery.
Although many primary teachers are uncomfortable teaching PE, it is not claimed that physical activity is not occurring.
Pill (2007) maintains that whilst physical activity is occurring, the quality of what is happening is questionable despite educators in the primary years being uncomfortable with teaching of PE.
In addition, Carney and Howells (2008:iv) argue that the primary class teacher cannot and should not be separated from engaging in PE, as this does not reflect the holistic view of primary education.
Yet Lavin et als (2008) article claimed 84% of primary teachers sit in on coaches delivery of curriculum PE to further their own CPD.
Thus implying that primary teachers believed the coaches were more knowledgeable than themselves.
A view enhanced by Griggs and Ward (2010) who, from feedback given by a number of PLTs in a recent research project, indicated their reliance on sports coaches to raise the standards of delivery of PE.
However, this paper does not recommend an all or nothing solution, but rather the primary teacher remains responsible for all subjects other than the three specialist foundation subjects of PE, music and modern foreign languages (MFL), thus maintaining a pastoral vision of primary education.
The research throughout this study has highlighted that the specialist primary PE teacher would offer a better learning experience.
Furthermore, Carney et al.
Overall, most primary delivery could be better described as Physical Activity rather than PE, as most teachers have a very limited understanding of what constitutes National Curriculum PE.
A clear conclusion drawn from all the evidence thus far is that, perhaps along with music and MFL, a subject specialist should be introduced into primary schools nationally.
It is therefore suggested that specialist primary PE teachers are trained, and that this be introduced as a national strategy (Blair and Capel, 2008; Carney and Howells, 2008).
Although much evidence gathered for this study indicated that this could de-skill primary teachers of their ability to deliver curriculum PE, the vast majority of those involved in this research believed it would result in the best learning experience for the child, and this must surely be the most important factor in the development of children.
Biddle, S., Sallis, J. and Cavill, N. (1998) Young and Active?
Routledge.
Primary PE Matters.
London, DCMS.
(2008) School Sport Coaching Programme: Frequently Asked Questions.
London, DCMS.
The influence of learning opportunities on role definition.
Vol.
Kidman, L. (2005) Athlete Centred Coaching; Developing Inspired and Inspiring People.
Innovative Print Communications.
Faculty of Education, University of Newcastle.
Paper Presented at The Annual Conference of the Australian Association for Research in Education in Fremantle, December 2001.
Vol.
Routledge.
[online] available at: www.sportengland.org/about_us.aspx [accessed 24/3/10].
European Physical Education Review.
Vol.
