The paper reports on trainees developing understanding of the rationale for, and principles, of Assessment for Learning in terms of how prior experiences as learners and observations on school placement influenced their learning from University-based sessions.
Shepard quotes Graue (1993) as saying assessment and instruction are often conceived as curiously separate in both time and purpose (Shepard, 2000 : 291), and points out that formal, standardized testing of students may, in fact, serve to obstruct the application of constructivist approaches to instruction.
The first is the perception by the learner of a gap between a desired goal and his or her present state (of knowledge, and/or understanding, and /or skill).
(Black & Wiliam, 1998 : 20) Studies in student performance and school productivity have also tended to favour more formative approaches to assessment, claiming that formal standardized testing practices do not provide an accurate basis for assessing either individual Proposed paper to IAEA conference 3 Fran Riga July08 students knowledge and understandings, or the contribution educational institutions make to the learning of their students (Black & Wiliam, 1998; Marshall and Drummond, 2006; Bryk et al, 1998).
Moreover, trainees conceptions of assessment can provide the framework through which they view ideas about pedagogy (Winterbottom et al, forthcoming).
The institutions are located in several counties in both rural and urban communities, and despite being comprehensive, serve a range of local demographics.
The initial teacher education course begins with a two-month programme Proposed paper to IAEA conference 4 Fran Riga July08 spent in both the Faculty of Education and in partner schools, with trainees having the opportunity to learn about assessment from Faculty input whilst also observing experienced practitioners.
A sample of trainee teachers were interviewed after this four-week placement, and their ideas about assessment analyzed.
The interview schedule comprised very general open-ended questions, with respondents encouraged to talk about their experiences, observations, views and concerns (Figure 1).
2. Who do you think assessment is for/what is the value of assessment?
5. How would you make assessments in your subject?
Analysis began with open coding, assigning codes using respondents own words as far as possible.
A maths specialist noted that assessment now has a much broader meaning than Proposed paper to IAEA conference 6 Fran Riga July08 hitherto understood, as students are now assessed throughout their course as well as at the end (M16), meaning that a range of formative and summative assessment practices are used in schools to monitor student knowledge and understanding.
This was thought to be enacted in two ways: firstly, by tracking where you are within what you are doing (M7) and thereby informing your teaching plan (M3), and secondly, by critiquing ones own teaching and so discovering out how well you are teaching (M2, M9) and what may have to be changed (M7).
Despite assessment having a broader meaning nowadays (M16) trainees still felt that on the whole assessment, whether rightly or wrongly, is driven by summative assessment (P1) and, furthermore, it seems to be increasingly presented as summative (M16) serving as a judgment of the standard of a piece of work.
Alongside this notion of assessment as a number reflecting an amount of knowledge, trainees also felt that assessment could be viewed as measuring performance against a set of targets or levels of attainment (P1, M8, M16), that is, providing information about how they (pupils) have been doing against how well they are expected to be doing (P3).
Assessment informing decision making Several trainees saw assessment as being about practitioners making a judgment about what students can achieve (M4), followed by making decisions about what action should be taken (by the teacher or pupil or school) which would be in the best interests of the pupil.
Assessment for external agencies Proposed paper to IAEA conference 7 Fran Riga July08 Several interviewees appeared to think of assessment in terms of official recognition for students capabilities (M8, M10).
It was felt that often students disregarded discursive comments and focused primarily on the mark or level awarded (M8, M4, M16).
This reinforced the view held by a majority of trainees, of assessment being student- focused requiring practitioners to assess the child in terms of their own capability (M11).
These ranged from those came from a generation where assessment was once only, at the end of the year (M16) to those who recalled frequent testing at the end of each unit and at regular intervals throughout the year, the emphasis being on summative, exam-style testing we never got comments or anything (M9) and so, as an English trainee put it, I used to find it hard to understand how I could improve my essay (P1).
The consensus now appeared to be that there is an awareness of assessment as an on-going thing that you do during class all the time . . . to ensure that you are taking all the pupils with you . . . a way of helping students get the education thats appropriate for them (M11).
On the whole, whole-school policies towards assessment seemed to be in place in some form in all the placement schools, some specifying highly structured criteria (M7) while others were less so.
At the other end of the spectrum, another science trainee reported that in her placement school, in science all assessment is formative (M1).
In addition to the tensions and inconsistencies already mentioned, many trainees also pointed out that they were aware of an element of pressure imposed on students to get good scores, to retain their position in the top group, for instance (M16, M8) in some cases it was argued that this could suppress a childs natural curiosity (M2).
When evaluative feedback was given to students, respondents were, on the whole, of the view that the feedback was in the form of a commentary rather than as short remarks such as good or well done.
Furthermore, the comments given tended to (a) highlight areas pupils had done good work in, i.e. positive feedback, and (b) direct students on how to build on this, i.e. how to construct new learning on what they already knew (M16, M11, M1).
Discussion As a relatively small, convenience sample of trainees were interviewed, it would not be reasonable to assume that the ideas they expressed were representative of the entire cohort.
This survey reported that (a) cluster analysis found trainees responses matched similar (though not the same) cluster found by Pedder and James (2007) in their study with in-service teachers; (b) there were indications of subject-based differences in trainees perceptions of some aspects of Proposed paper to IAEA conference 11 Fran Riga July08 assessment; (c) there was a mismatch between trainees perceptions of their own practices whilst in placement schools and what they perceived to be good practice (Winterbottom et al, 2008).
The exploratory study reported here drew similar conclusions trainees frequently point out that the classroom practices they observed and were encouraged to enact, do not match up to the ideals that they learnt about on their course and read about in the literature.
Although the research outlined in this paper can only be said to offer a glimpse of trainee teachers conceptions about assessment, the trainees interviewed have raised a number of points which need to be considered and addressed, if the focus and purpose of school assessment is to be brought closer in line with cognitive- constructivist learning theories.
(2) The criteria used to evaluate students work need to be made explicit to students, and should be consistent at least within departments.
Students should work in partnership with teachers (and/or other students as in peer assessment) in deciding the action that needs to be taken to move the learner forward in his/her understanding and knowledge.
His main research interests relate to learning in science.
His current research interests include teacher education, ICT and classroom environment.
Other research interests include teacher education and motivation for learning languages.
She has recently published papers on pedagogy in post-16 classrooms as a result of curricular reforms and on computer- mediated communication for language learning.
John Finney is a senior lecturer in music education in the Faculty of Education, University of Cambridge.
Recent publications include: Rebuilding engagement through the arts (Pearson Publishing) and Teaching music with digital technology (Continuum).
London: School of Education, Kings College Black, P. & Wiliam, D. (2006) Developing a theory of formative assessment, in: J. Gardner (Ed.) Assessment and learning.
London: Sage Proposed paper to IAEA conference 14 Fran Riga July08 James, M. & Pedder, D. (2006) Beyond method: assessment and learning practices and values, The Curriculum Journal, 17(2), 109-138 Madaus, G. F., West, M. M., Harmon, M. C., Lomax, R. G., & Viator, K. A. (1992) The influence of testing on teaching math and science in grades 4-12.
Chestnut Hill, MA: Center of Study of Testing, Evaluation, and Educational Policy, Boston College Marshall, B. & Drummond, M.-J.
