Self-efficacy is a construct introduced by Bandura in 1977.
Self-efficacy has profound influence on personal endeavours and engagement.
Zimmerman (1995) suggests that people with higher degrees of efficacy will perform with greater motivation, effort, and persistence on harder tasks.
The beliefs we have about ourselves affect our behaviour and agency.
Consequently, we explore the sources and pedagogical implications of musical self- efficacy in generalist and specialist teachers as well as pre-service teacher candidates.
Also, my voice is terrible.
One teacher attributed the lack of self-efficacy to an experience where the music supervisor told me in front of staff and students that I cant carry a tune in a bucket.
For example, In teachers college I was told to use a record.
For example, I dont like singing in front of people.
Is there a difference between perceived talent and self confidence in generalists (t = -0.139, df-104, p= 0.89) or in music specialists?
(t = -2.56, df = 76, Prob = 0.01).
Generalists self confidence is aligned with the evaluation of their talent.
What is the relationship between self-confidence and how verbally encouraging and complimentary teacher(s) was as a child, (.31) teen, (.54) recently (.53) For music teachers, the relationship between self-confidence and how verbally encouraging and complimentary teacher(s) was: .16 as a child, .25 as a teen, and .15 recently.
Without encouraging comments from them, I wouldnt be studying music now.
There was no significant relationship here although musicians do rate the importance of family fairly high on a separate question.
As a child, I felt that I had a good musical talent.
At that point, I labeled myself as a person who couldnt sing. I believe that a teacher has a HUGE impact on one self-perception of being musically inclined.
Stress related to music during childhood stands as a separate factor.
Stress (factor 2) stands as a distinct factor, separate from enjoyment (factor 5) not a binary.
I also took piano lessons as a child and Music 100 at university.
BUT I am a technical musician not an accomplished, creative, committed musician.
I believe ability and love (attitude toward) for any subject is best engendered when taught by a teacher with knowledge and passion.
My experiences have enriched my life and I cant imagine culture without the artsBUT my area of expertise and passion is English.so I do NOT even see myself as a music teacher.
GB How important to their sense of confidence do musicians rate self evaluation (6.1), family support (5.8), verbal praise (5.9), and stress experienced (5.1)?
About whose opinion of their music making efforts are music teachers most worried?
I always feel inferior to other musicians usually even if I know their level and although I believe it is not important where I rank as compared to other musicians.
5.6 Did you feel your knowledge was adequate?
DI Growing up in a small community gave me a huge amount of confidence.
I was involved in every musical group and had a lot of support.
This occasionally resulted with a gravely upset student.
She doesnt remember what pieces Im working on from week to week and she has, on a few occasions, even forgotten my name.
I never took another music course or participated in music activities unless forced to do so.
(there were few kids in the boy soprano category.) I have never entered a competition since, partly I think because my pride had been hurt and partly because I realized how pointless competitions are.
It took me a while to develop performing confidence and Im still struggling with it.
EN I had a really bad start in learning music.
I always feel inferior to other musicians usually even if I know their level and although I believe it is not important where I rank as compared to other musicians.
I still have difficulties in accepting my music.
He and I have learned to be flat-out honest with things I need to work on and I need to be less critical of my progress.
Basic competence is the goal, but teachers will make little effort if there is little self- efficacy.
Perhaps, the issues fold around a culture of music education which values large group performance with most teachers viewing rehearsal as the way to teach music.
For some, music education assumes that the teacher must know everythingthe chief interpreter and problem solver.
Add to this, the dominance of replicationhence note reading and knowledge of style and practice take precedence.
Self-efficacy: The exercise of control.
New York: Freeman.
Learned helplessness through modeling: The role of perceived similarity in competence.
Gardner, H. (1983).
Pintrich, P. R. & Schunk, D. H. (1995).
New York: McGraw Hill.
