Title: From Marching Bands to Punk Bands: Perceptions and Experiences of Non-Classical Musicians in Their Elementary and Secondary Music Programs There is little question that music educators in the 21 st Century must recognize and address the global significance of popular music.
Music educators today must identify how they are going to deal with the allegation that music education has had relatively little to do with the development of the majority of the musicians who have produced the vast proportion of the music which the global population listens to, dances to, identifies with, and enjoys (Green, 2002, p. 5).
And while elementary, secondary, and collegiate music educators have struggled with the inclusion of popular music in school curricula from the 1969 Tanglewood declaration, to the 1991 Music Educators Journal issue dedicated completely to popular music, and in countless discussions in conference sessions and hallways, the issue is still not fully understood.
Educators deliberate a range of issues from the very appropriateness of the genre, to how to effectively and authentically introduce it to the curriculum without sacrificing the standards and integrity of traditional music education.
However, while these debates are critical to the advancement of music education in the 21 st Century, they nevertheless are centered around the impact of popular music on a schools music curriculum and as a result do not provide a complete picture.
The researchers of this ongoing study approach the problem of popular music not from a study of the effect of inclusion of popular music on traditional music programs, but rather through an examination of the impact of traditional school music curricula on popular musicians.
The researchers were initially driven by concern that there may exist a group of student - musicians that schools are excluding as a result of both selection of literature as well as approach to teaching and learning.
Essentially, are the students in our band rooms the same students who are making music over the weekend?
This concern, supported by recent research suggesting that popular musicians learn differently than classically trained musicians and place more importance on aspects of musical training such as listening and improvising (Creech, et.al., 2008), led to the related question: Can we as educators learn from the practices of popular musicians and use their pedagogical concepts to strengthen our students and create more well-rounded musicians?
The purpose of this study is to investigate the experiences and perceptions of adult popular musicians (both professional and amateur) with formal K-12 music education, music learning, and music teaching.
Adult popular musicians representing different genres (folk, rock, gospel, etc.), levels of professional accomplishment (local, regional, national recognition), employment status (amateur, part-time, full-time), and regions of the United States were contacted and invited to participate in a personal and real-time interview utilizing questions designed to elicit information regarding their experiences, perceptions, and opinions toward formal K-12 music education.
The location of these interviews was in a setting and time selected by the participants and the interviews were electronically recorded.
Qualitative analysis of data occurred through inductive processing.
The transcripts and notes were coded, studied for identification of major themes and sub-themes, challenged through a search for disconfirming evidence, and finally, after the completion of the analysis stage, member checks were conducted.
The researchers found that just as in any learning situation, it is difficult to generalize learning styles, preferences, and practices based on the chosen genre that music students choose to pursue.
Nevertheless, the results did appear to support the findings of previous studies examining informal music learning practices, perceived importance of specific musical skills, and attitudes regarding musical priorities (Creech, et.al., 2008).
Further, it was found that some prominent popular musicians were able to grow, develop, and thrive as musicians in traditional school music setting that did not accommodate the way popular musicians traditionally learn.
In conclusion, the researchers suggest that music educators must recognize that the teaching practices utilized in a traditional music classroom or rehearsal hall could be enhanced and strengthened by the inclusion of informal music learning opportunities and other approaches and traditions utilized by popular musicians.
Nevertheless, music educators must continue to advocate for the continuation of classically-based training and traditions as they clearly ground students on a firm musical foundation.
There are many types of learners in our classrooms we must teach to all of them.
Works Cited Creech, A., De Bezenac, C., Duffy, C., Hadden, E., Himonides, E., Papageorgi, I.,Welch, G. (2008).
Investigating musical performance: Commonality and diversity among classical and non-classical musicians.
Music Education Research, 10(2), 215-234.
Green, L. (2002).
How popular musicians learn: A way ahead for music education.
Surrey, England: Ashgate Publishing Limited.
