It can be part of a cross-curricular approach, helping with numeracy, developing the talents of those with special needs as well as the gifted.
Add to that a confusion of historical and cultural allegiances, evident in the assumption that `folk music and ballad writing encompass the essential features of British culture, and we are left with a somewhat unsatisfactory rationale for music in the curriculum.
Reimer, 1970/89).
Pitts, 2000).
The most efcient way to do this, as the early twentieth-century educators found, is through teacher- directed listening and singing lessons: . . . surely the composer creates not for the performer but for the listener.
Music is composed to be heard and the performer is the means of its being heard.
(Scholes, 1935: 122) Scholes's views were expressed in his book Music, the Child and the Masterpiece (1935), a title which of itself reveals a reverence for the classical masterworks, and their benecial inuence on children.
McCulloch (1998: 34) notes that the rst attempts to devise a practical S t ephan i e P i t t s 34 curriculum for the `working classes included an emphasis on the `cultural', which suggests that music had a role to play in the social and vocational aspirations of these newly educated classes.
As gramophone records and radio broadcasts became more widely available, the notion of musical `taste was carried forward into the debate surrounding popular music in the classroom, as teachers grappled with the question of who, or what, was shaping their pupils musical identities.
It is evident, however, that it cannot stand alone, and that the induction of the listener into the classical and national repertoire that served the purposes of early twentieth-century teachers and pupils is no longer sufcient to justify music's place on the timetable.
The sense that music adds something to an otherwise utilitarian education still pervades contemporary thinking, with the National Curriculum Music Working Group making reference to the `greatly enriched leisure pursuits that a school grounding in music could offer (DES, 1991: 3).
Children do not hatch into adults after a secluded incubation at school.
The opportunity to participate in music, as a listener, performer or, more recently, a composer, is the driving force of this argument, with an implicit emphasis on skills and access over subject knowledge.
The ability to be involved in music, at whatever level, competes with the reverence for music that was at the heart of the appreciation movement, although the sense of equipping children to live more fullling lives is the impetus for both.
Like the `cultural arguments surrounding music, the concept of music as leisure was complicated by the popular music debate of the 1960s and onwards.
To an extent, the distinction had always existed, as is evident in one 1930s headmaster's hope that his pupils might `persuade mother to buy a gramophone record other than a jazz tune (Scholes, 1935: 234).
Perhaps the caution ought to be against generalisation, both in the assumption that all children since the 1960s have been ardent pop music fans, and in the belief that musical leisure is a desirable goal for everyone.
This is `music for life', rather than specically for leisure; a character-forming occupation, which impacts upon the social development implicit in the cultural arguments of Scholes (1935) and others.
The nal reason to be discussed here, music for emotional and imaginative development, takes up an aspect that has been present in both of the other categories, by focusing the debate more closely on the immediate experience of music for individual children.
This last reason for teaching music is perhaps the most ambitious, proposing as it does the development of the individual child, rather than focusing more closely on subject knowledge or skills.
For the Cambridgeshire Committee, this view supported a belief in a practical music education, fostering links between schools and community through accessible performance opportunities.
Emotional discovery and understanding might well result from the experience of music in schools although many have asserted otherwise (cf.
And yet a sense of purpose is undoubtedly necessary, for the teacher's sanity as much as for the children's benet: It is clearly essential for the teacher of music to be convinced that music is an indispensable constituent of a truly liberal education.
Such a conviction will determine the enthusiasm, vitality and quality of his teaching and prevent his being unduly discouraged by inadequate time-table, accommodation and equipment provision or overwhelmed and exhausted by a wide range of extra-curricular musical activities.
(Brocklehurst, 1971: 3) Paynter (1997: 18) puts this more succinctly when he states that `Believing in what we teach is what it is all about.
Out of respect for the fact that teachers are inundated with paperwork the questionnaire was brief, but the replies received were detailed and thoughtful, suggesting that the questions had relevance to the way the teachers approached their work.
with many references in-between to a love of music, an interest in teaching and a desire to make use of existing musical skills.
Becoming a music teacher was, for most, a practical career decision, but answers to the second question, on the purposes of music in the curriculum, revealed a greater depth of commitment.
Answers here fell into three broad categories: the development of specic musical skills, notably performing and composing; the acquisition of knowledge, con- tributing to a breadth of education; and the fostering of certain personal qualities, including concentration, organisation, self-expression and condence.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, these practising teachers make more reference to musical skills and lesson content than did the published authors discussed earlier: this is realism, not rhetoric (cf.
An extensive study would be necessary to see if these tendencies are replicated more widely, and it would also be interesting to ask teachers to give their own reactions to the historical texts and their perceived relevance to contem- porary practice.
Music is an important part of the curriculum, with a role as indenable as the place that music holds in so many lives.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
COX, G. (1999) `Secondary school music teachers talking', Music Education Research, 1 (1), 3746.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND SCIENCE (1991) National Curriculum Music Working Group: Interim report.
London: DES.
London: Oxford University Press.
FLETCHER, P. (1987/89) Education and Music.
MACPHERSON, S. (1922) The Musical Education of the Child.
London: Joseph Williams.
(1923) The Appreciation Class: A guide for the music teacher and the student.
London: Joseph Williams.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Rea son s t o t e a ch mus i c : e s t ab l i s h i n g a p l a c e i n t h e con t empo r a r y c u r r i c u l um 41 PAYNTER, J. (1997) `The form of nality: a context for musical education', British Journal of Music Education, 14 (1), 521.
London: Oxford University Press.
London, HMSO.
VULLIAMY, G. & LEE, E. (1982) Pop, Rock and Ethnic Music in Schools.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
London: Oxford University Press.
