Wilson (1996) con- cluded that preservice music-education programs would be more effective if course work and field experience with special learners were included as part of the curriculum.
Field experience with special learners prior to student teaching is necessary (Wilczenski, 1994) for future teaching success.
Wilczenski suggests that having more field experi- ence prior to student teaching can lead to more realistic expectations and, ulti- mately, more accepting attitudes toward the inclusion of special learn- ers.
Askamit and Alcorn (1988) showed that less than 50% of preser- vice teachers had field experiences with special learners prior to graduation.
Lyon, Vaassen, and Toomey (1989) surveyed practicing at MENC on July 8, 2010jmt.sagepub.comDownloaded from 6teachers and recommended multiple preservice field experiences that include a representative range of classroom sit- uations and students.
Specifically lacking were experiences with IEP (Individualized Education Program) conferences, diagnostic tools, strategies for learning, and structured field expe- riences with special learners prior to the student-teaching experience.
According to respondents, the average amount of instructional time devoted to inclusion of special learners was approximately five hours during their preservice education.
The pur- pose of the present research was to examine preservice course work and field experiences of practicing elemen- tary music teachers over a 20-year peri- od to aid in the identification of cur- rent and prior practice among college and university music education faculty members.
A special- learner survey form was prepared and mailed to 653 Virginia elementary music teachers.
These practicing teachers, who had taught from one to more than twenty years, identified what course work and experiences they received that focused on special learners during their preser- at MENC on July 8, 2010jmt.sagepub.comDownloaded from 7vice education.
Results Selected Responses.
The vast majority of practicing teachers (76%) observed special learn- ers from 0-5 hours prior to student teaching.
With the increasing number of special learners included in classrooms (National Center for Education Statis- tics, 1997), this is not adequate to pre- pare preservice teachers to teach these students.
These teachers rec- ommend that college and university faculty create courses that are &dquo;more real life and less ideal or perfect&dquo; and include methods and materials for adaptation in the music classroom.
One teacher stated: I was never taught about special learners.
I was 21 and had no prior knowledge or training in this area.
I have found that these chil- dren relate very well to music, and I have to find certain pieces of music the teacher can use to calm the stu- dent and for her to gain control of their [sic] behavior.
One teacher said: The biggest challenge for ele- mentary music teachers is the reality that we teach classes where all stu- dents are combined despite special needs.
Adapting the music classes for all students, whether special needs or regular education, can be difficult without support staff.
Another teacher added, &dquo;We need to know what they can do.
Am not consulted regarding IEPS, not included in placements, not asked to have opin- ions and to share with general teach- ers-just not encouraged to do so.
Others discuss ways they have learned about inclusion through other teachers in their schools.
We expect these children to adapt and become as independent as possible.
at MENC on July 8, 2010jmt.sagepub.comDownloaded from 10 Conclusions ) In summary, practicing teachers expressed frustration about their pre- service preparation and experiences with special learners.
They identified specific areas as deficient, including the ability to behaviorally manage the inclusion music classroom, to become involved in the IEP process, and to communi- cate with special education staff more or on an ongoing basis.
The fact that music teachers do not perceive themselves as competent to include special learners, whether they have many years of experience or are new to the field, reveals a breakdown between the time of study and point of implementation.
Teacher Educa- tion and Special Education, 11 (2), 52-58.
Quarterly Jour- nal of Music Teaching and Learning, 4 (1), 20-26.
Brown, M. C. (1981).
Problems in main- streaming programs in the L. A. Uni- fied School District as perceived by junior high school music teachers (Doctoral dissertation, University of California at Los Angeles, 1981).
(ERIC Document Repro- duction Service No. ED 386 439) Dalrymple, N. (1993).
(1997).
Enrollment, teachers, and schools.
Digest of Education Statistics.
Available: nces.
Pre- service preparation of regular educa- tors : A national survey of curricular content in introductory exceptional children and youth courses.
Journal of Research in Music Education, 58 (2), 90-101.
Undergraduate music teacher preparation for mainstreaming: A survey of music education teacher training institutions in the Great Lakes region of the United States (Doctoral dissertation, Michigan State Universi- ty, 1994).
Changes in atti- tudes toward mainstreaming among undergraduate education students.
Wilson, B. (1996).
Models of music therapy interventions in school settings: From institutions to inclusion.
Silver Spring, MD: National Association for Music Therapy.
