Keywords: gender, motivation, participation, self-efficacy, symbolic interactionism From an early age, children develop a sense of identity in the area of music.
K12 music programs in the United States typically offer general music instruction for students K5; some districts extend general music offerings into middle and high school.
Knowing students perception of a good musician brings music educators a step closer to understanding what makes some children seek to participate in the school music program and others not.
Students form a concept of themselves in part based on the manifestations of identity belonging to the students that make up their group.
In the school culture examined in this study, student testing and placement on instruments occurs in the fourth grade.
This finding should not be a surprise, given that parents represent the core of students home social network, providing support or lack of support for school pursuits, and teachers often are critical to students first formal exposure to the study of mu- sic.
Using the theory of symbolic interactionism and an understand- ing of the literature on motivation in mind, researchers have developed models to organize the salient components of mo- tivation for purposes of guiding further research.
MEANING OF GOOD MUSICIAN 3 By examining these beliefs in the context of the theory pro- posed by Austin, Renwick, and McPherson (2006), I hoped to collect a snapshot of the theory of symbolic interactionism at work within the culture of one school.
If this information was found to be valuable, similar mea- sures might be employed as diagnostic measures for music programs that were suffering as a result of a lack of student interest or declining enrollment.
3. Is there a relationship between gender and student be- liefs about whether or not they are good musicians?
4. What factors defining a good musician are indicated most frequently among different grade levels?
The school district was located near a city of 800,000 people on one self-contained campus.
Survey items included items about grade, gender, and school music affiliation (none, band, choir, or both band and choir), and an open-ended response to the statement A good musician is someone who.
As- sent procedures were followed in accordance to guidelines established by the university research board.
Teaches RESULTS Four Key Questions What Percentage of Students Choose to Participate in School Music?
Which Factors Defining a Good Musician Are Indicated Most Frequently among Different Grade Levels?
There is a sig- nificant relationship between grade and general mu- sic characteristicslisteninginstrument pedagogy (p < .001).
DISCUSSION It is worth mentioning again that although the results of this study are not generalizable to other populations of students, the method employed here of using psychological measure- ment strategiesthe open-ended response item regarding beliefsin the context of school systems warrants further thought and consideration within the field of music educa- tion.
If practic- ing/performing on an instrument is indeed what this culture views as an important indicator of a good musiciankeeping in mind that a majority (56%) of students are not involved with any kind of school music within the culture at largeit seems reasonable to believe that by offering a wider selec- tion of instruments, perhaps those that the students them- selves recommend for inclusion, would help increase the participation levels within the school music program.
North, Hargreaves, and ONeill (2000) have found similar results with adolescent British students regarding the value placed on practicing/performing on an instrument.
Declining self- reported good musicianship among members of this cul- ture is cause for concern.
In other words, the more they learn about rhythm, melody, and harmony, as well as proper instrument technique, the more they realize that they are not measuring up to the standards.
Changes in the environment of school mu- sic ensembles will only potentially affect the schemas of 44 percent of the total population of this culture.
Personal effortpersistencepays attention ranks high initially according to student descriptions of a good musician; however, by grade 11, this category disappears from the collective schema.
Further- more, teachers are not always music teachers, but every teacher who teaches within a school district contributes to the identity of the students that make up that population.
Therefore, proposals for change within school music offer- ings must take into account that school music programs exist within a larger cultural framework composed of culturally bound personal psychological beliefs about what it means to be a good musician.
Research examining the self, peers, and teachers as con- tributors to identity formation would be helpful in making suggestions for practice.
Also interesting to know would be how teachers and peers who are not involved with the school music program perceive the programs value.
If only these same students could play an instrument with which they already naturally identify in school!
College music education programs should help future mu- sic educators understand how to recognize the musical iden- tities of students within their respective teaching settings.
If teachers are able to connect the music-making opportunities that occur inside the school music environ- ment with the music making that occurs outside it, they will be more successful at reaching students.
The goal for the music education community is to help students recognize that good musicians are found in the school music environment, and that they can be good musicians too.
Reston, VA: Music Educators National Conference.
New York: Oxford University Press.
Boespflug, G. 2004.
The pop music ensemble in music education.
Reston, VA: Music Educators National Conference.
Burland, K., and J. W. Davidson.
New York: Oxford University Press.
Journal of Research in Music Education 46:14160.
The genesis of musical behavior: Implications for ado- lescent music education.
International Journal of Education & the Arts 2 (5).
In Bridging the gap: Popular music and music education, ed. C. X. E. Rodriguez, 22440.
Reston, VA: Music Educators National Conference.
2003.
2000.
2003.
New York: Oxford University Press.
New York: Oxford University Press.
Perspectives from the sociology of music.
2000.
Thats my piece, thats my signature, and it means more.
Sloboda, J. A., and M. J. A. Howe.
Stipek, D. J., and L. M. Tannatt.
