It should be extended to include all musical acts and omissions, as well as observable behavior patterns (5; italics original).
(De Nora 2000, 17) Thus conceived, music is a prime source of social agency: [M]usic is in dynamic relation with social life, helping to invoke, stabilize and change the parameters of agency, collective and individual.
Furthermore, understood as social practice, music is not reserved only for special times and places (especially not only for concerts and concert halls), or for making special (Dissanayake 1990) certain events and occasions (e.g., rites and rituals, celebrations and ceremonies).
Given its intimate connection with social practices of all kinds, then, it is probably impossible to speak of musics powers abstracted from their contexts of use (DeNora 2000, x)the socio-musical functions and practices that, to begin with, (a) account for the very existence of music, (b) for the different musics brought into being, and (c) for the social, cultural, and personal effects of all forms of musicking.3 This, in turn, accounts for Blaukopfs emphasis on music in a changing society.
Thus, the music people regularly choose to enliven and invigorate their lives is music that is appreciated; and it is appreciated in exactly the ways it is put into practice.5 4 Teaching for appreciation, then, is teaching for useteaching for practice.
Thus, whatif anythingmusic education actually contributes at the personal level is not only too often ignored; worse, many music educators openly disclaim any responsibility for making a pragmatic difference in the actual musical choices and lives of studentseither while they are students or later as adults.
To the degree it does not, or that what it produces is seen as irrelevant, not useful (i.e., is not functional; is not or cannot be put into practice by typical graduates), it is criticized or marginalizedeven eliminated!
In music education, curriculum decisionsconcerning what, of all that could be taught, is most worth teachingare invariably involved with just such questions.
While languages differ, their purposes and contributions remain very similar across language groups, and the same holds for musical practices.
Constructionist and constructivist theories of psychology, sociology, and philosophy, with their emphasis on the construction of knowledge and meaning, fall into this categoryat least as long as they are not simply employed as pedagogical strategies intended to promote accepted culture and the status quo.13 Critical Theory is a leading interpretive theory and its various proponents stress the importance of schools as places where students learn to identify inequalities and various kinds of oppression and thus are empowered to free themselves of such dominance by instead actualizing their own meanings, values, and practices.
Postmodernist theories stress the need to deconstruct the assumptions and built-in inequalities of accepted cultureissues of class, race, gender, ethnicity, power, authority, artistic canons (etc.)and, with such knowledge, to 7 construct and transform their own lives and society.
In music education, several themes are relevant.
In this vision, schools can become community music centers where citizens of all ages gather to learn and make music, and school music and community music education can become partners, even overlap or fuse.
First of all, the pleasures (social, musical, etc.) students may experience from these activities seldom inspire continuation after the school years, or have a direct bearing on students subsequent musical tastes.
Furthermore, when the literature is chosen to represent a wide variety of musics for the performance medium at stake, students can become interestedas listeners, as performers (etc.)in musics they might otherwise have overlooked or avoided.
From functionalism music education can learn that society sees schools as providing certain valued societal functions.
And given the fact that the social goods for which music exists are shared, at least in large part, across various groups, focus on these needs, as exemplified (usually somewhat differently) by different musical practices, can advance musical skills and musical knowledge, and attitudes, dispositions and values.
Most importantly, students musical choices, and the musicianship skills needed to bring their choices to fruition, will be increased.
Take golf, for example: When beginners begin to break 100 (i.e., score under 100) with some regularity they start to think of themselves as golfers, and (so 11 the theory goes) begin to buy their own equipment and special clothing.
Perhaps most importantly, they become serious enough to study how to improve and mindfully practice in order to improve.
Breaking 100 in music lacks the demarcation of a golf score; it is more the point at which students (of any age) decide or discover how much fun, how interesting, how rewarding musicking is.
Thus they take lessons, practice more, and actively seek ways in which they can improve their pleasures and rewards (e.g., studying literature from different styles), or ways in which their access to music can be increased (e.g., joining various groups).
Breaking 100 in music is an action ideal that, if promoted by all music teachers, would tangiblyeven dramaticallyenhance musics role as social practice, simply because more people would be engaged mindfully and seriously in various musical practices than is the case today.
London: SAGE Publications.
Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press.
12 __________ 1990 The Logic of Practice.
New York: Columbia University Press.
The Cultural Study of Music.
New York: Longman.
Seattle WA: University of Washington Press.
1995.
2004.
2002.
Lochhead, Judy and Joseph Auner, eds.
2002.
13 Martin, Peter J. Music and the Sociological Gaze: Art Worlds and Cultural Production.
2004.
2004.
2001.
The Practice Turn in Contemporary Theory.
2002.
1 Certain works, for example, can be learned by ear and some of these may never have been notated: e.g., most rock music.
In acknowledging the existence of different musics, the collective noun music is used and stands in relation to musics as food does to particular foods.
2 Society, as understood herein, should not be conceived in terms of a kind of holistic, bounded entity.
Music is a key means of such sociation (e.g., DeNora 2000; Stokes 1997) and, thus, a key means by which society is actualized at any given moment for a person.
5 For example, the practice of listening via an iPod is a different musical practice (i.e., is good for different ends) than listening to live music as a member of an audience (which is itself a social group, and audience listening is a distinctly social practice).
Moreover, in that paradigm, to be properly appreciated means that music should be understood as musicians understand it.
Many points apply, as well, to individual lessonswhether in private or home studios, etc. 9 E.g., teaching uncomfortable facts about the countrys history; sex education that acknowledges homosexuality in neutral terms; teaching evolutionary theory in highly religious countries, regions, or communities.
13 Where, that is, teaching strategies are used to get students to supposedly construct their own understandings of knowledge, meanings, and values taken for granted and transmitted as accepted culture (by teachers, authorities, etc.) and thus that are given hegemonic status in the curriculum.
This instruction engages by far the largest number of students.
This is followed by a discussion with the entire ensemble of over-all effects: matters of phrasing, dynamics, intonation, articulation, etc., where student input is respectfully accepted by the teacher, but where the teacher is free to explain (i.e., teach) why this or that option might be preferred.
