But is it a profession and, if so, what criteria and conditions guide (or should guide) its professional practice?
To begin with, it is often associated in several ways with certain occupations.
However, the nature and acquisition of such skills tend to vary greatly.
In many occupations, such training is very narrow because the competence required is limited; it focuses on skills and knowledge that, at a minimum, are highly standardized and routinized, and thus are directly and easily evaluated; for example, the knowledge and skills required of a licensed electrician or plumber.5 As far as music teaching is concerned, one point of view argues that the only requirement for being a good music teacher is being a good musician.
When the first teaching position is very different in its particulars from the internship, beginning teachers are often left mainly to their own designs.12 This result might be less problematic where teaching circumstances are quite uniform, for example as a result of a highly centralized education ministry or monocultural student population.
Most important, entrance to these professions was controlled by professional peers, who set requirements for entry, training, and certification.
Unlike the need for ever-more apologetics and advocacy marshaled by musicians and music educators for music education, then, the helping professions19 Secondly, the expertise and resulting authority of a profession can be used (or abused) socially, as when such experts are the primary sources of laws and customs that promote their professional self-interests.
This, of course, protects the public at the same time that it protects the status of the profession, but it is an aspect of accountability to the profession and public almost totally missing from teaching!
Certain kinds of so-called aesthetic surgery and dentistry have been cited in this regard.
Finally, power is used when professions in the same field vie with each other.
As Bourdieu has shown (1990), this competition for resources and recognition within a field of endeavor is quite natural.
What is not natural, however, are attempts to in effect create monopoliesfor example, whether these are over rival medical paradigms21 or over rival teaching methods.22 Viewed from the perspective of critical social theory, then, professions can resemble special-interest groups that pursue a variety of self-interested strategies that attempt to establish and maintain a monopoly of claimed expertise of a certain kind.
Thus, serving the musical needs of a select few often results in the problem (or allegation) of elitism; and the social consequences of such negative perceptions can work against the status of music education in the minds of people in all walks of life who see educationof all kindsin more egalitarian and pragmatic terms.30 Public perception that music education is insufficiently pragmatic and egalitarianthat is, that it too regularly fails to make a notable and lasting difference in the musical choices and lives of all its studentsmay well outweigh any benefits claimed for identifying or serving mainly the elite few, since music education is increasingly in the position of having to defend its existence.
While most teachers like, even love, the subjects they teach, teaching music can be (or at least can seem to the public to be) simply more enjoyable and personally rewarding for the music teacher.
The same scenario unfolds for most students who study privately while of school age and then cease to study, practice, or perform as adults, and whose musical tastes and choices typically mirror those of peers who have never studied.
34 what we might call musicianists can adopt a musically holier than thou frame of reference, or engage in pushy musical evangelizing, 12 with results that invite rejecting the message because of the single-minded zealotry of the messenger.
Professions and Action Ideals Despite attempts, defining a profession or distinguishing a profession from a non- profession via a checklist of criteria leads to more confusion than clarity.
In sum, then, curricular action ideals36 should be premised in terms that facilitate clear evidence both of student achievement and teaching effectivenessthat is, clear evidence that the benefits claimed for the professional service have been advanced.
Just as the doctors of today have evolved in comparison to doctors of several decades ago, music teachers as professionals should always be improving in the degree to which (or expanded range of ways in which) the action ideals that guide their teaching choices are realized for students.
Today, the skill-drill and technique-building training of certain music pedagogies (e.g., scales and exercises) still qualify as clear examples of techne.40 An important feature of techne is that mistakes are simply corrected, with no more harm than the loss of time.41 Praxis, in contrast, involves the knowledge needed in serving people.
Precision and the Particulars of Teaching as Praxis For Aristotle, the Platonic conception of universal, absolute or ideal good in itself however much it might characterize the godswas not applicable to the everyday affairs and needs of humans.
First of all, as has been mentioned already, the practice of any two practitioners in the same field will vary.
19 Students in studios and ensembles may enjoy performing but, too often, apparently not enough to promote a lifelong interest in continuing to perform beyond the years of private lessons and school music; or school music has not helped them develop the kind of independent musicianship that promotes and supports lifelong involvement.
This determination depends, however, on the already mentioned need for music teachers, as professionals, to begin with certain curricular action ideals in mind concerning what here has been metaphorically referred to as musical good healththe actual improvements to a students musical life that are to be advanced as a result of the teachers professional services.
With such generally good or right curricular results clearly in mind as the guiding directions of music teaching, effective teaching will be a matter of predictably moving in those observable directions in an reasonably efficient manner and to a notable degree.
These can be given appropriate precision by asking, What can a student do mindfully And malpraxis will be at stake where harm is clearly the direct or indirect result of teaching.
For example, composition software and MIDI open the door to lifelong musical involvement heretofore largely unexplored by formal music education.
Beyond planning, however, are daily pedagogical actions that have personal or emotional consequences for students that are potentially harmful.
Students who in any way have been caused to experience what they consider to be failure, undue stress, and the like, have suffered the effects of harmful teaching.
This disposition, he seems to suggest, may well be inbornor in any case, is not at first consciously cultivated.
Indeed, it may well be in meeting a high standard of care, the intention of serving particularly well the good for which any occupation is done, that even professional athletes or carpenters earn their deserved status.
1998.
1998.
Bladh, Stephan.
The Logic of Practice.
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.
Music Matters: A New Philosophy of Music Education.
Kalamazoo, MI: W.E.
Princeton: Van Nostrand.
1998.
The Aristotelian bases of praxis for music and music education.
1998.
The Theory of Social and Economic Organizations.
Given the many formats for music teaching, the present essay does not attempt to systematically address each per each topic discussed; rather, it highlights examples and implications that are most relevant to a particular topic.
27 Competing at least in the sense that as musicians they are rightfully concerned with issues of musical quality and standards; yet as teachers they are obliged to meet the musical needs of all their students, not just the talented and motivated ones.
In teaching, this involves the kind of unmet need that is either directly harmful or not helpful in reaching a right or good result.
Teaching music in a way that precludes learning to play by ear (e.g., by studying only notated music) is thus harmful for excluding the many options for performing that involve playing by ear and improvising.
After all, the philosophies and practices associated with Jaques-Dalcroze, Kodaly, Orff, and Comprehensive Musicianship were immutable.
Sometimes those chosen are simply ill- suited to the needs at hand; others are suitable to the curricular ideals at stake, but require improved executionmore practice by the teacherin order to produce the hypothesized benefits.
Sometimes this need can be satisfied through musical performance without, on the other hand, making much of a lasting impact on the students long-term musical choices.
