Extensive research has been undertaken in academic domains such as reading and mathematics on the effect of interest and intrinsic motivation on the learning process and its outcomes (Eccles, Wigeld & Schiefele, 1998).
`How good would you be at learning to play a new instrument?') and value beliefs (e.g.
Pintrich & De Groot (1990) measured task value as a combination of several aspects of students goals and beliefs: (a) mastery orientation (`I prefer class work that is challenging so I can learn new things'); (b) importance (`It is important for me to learn what is being taught in this class'); (c) extrinsic utility value (`I think I will be able to use what I learn in this class in other classes'); and (d) most relevant to the present research, intrinsic interest (`I like what I am learning in this class', `I think that what we are learning in this class is interesting').
Higher quality learning is related to intrinsic motivation (Benware & Deci, 1984; Gottfried, 1985) and to more autonomous forms of extrinsic motivation (Grolnick & Ryan, 1987).
Interest has been found to enhance the subjective quality of the learning experience and also to inuence the quality of learning results, with high-interest subjects engaging in more intensive and meaning-oriented processing of text (Schiefele & Rheinberg, 1997).
Unfortunately, the effects of choice and interest are often confounded, as students will typically choose learning materials in which they are more interested (Greco, 1997).
This study, conducted over three years, involved regular collection of several measures of musical skill, as well as ongoing interviews with the children, their mothers, their classroom teachers, and their music teachers.
V i d e o t a p e s Before videotaping began, Clarissa and her parents were interviewed in order to explain the purpose of the study.
The present study is based on analysis of (a) the second and fourth practice sessions in Year 1, which occurred in the fourth and fth months of instruction, and (b) of the second and third practice sessions in Year 3, which occurred four days apart in Clarissa's 32nd month of learning the clarinet.
She chose clarinet because `It sounded fun', because her best friend played it, and also because `The clarinet teacher looked nice.
Before starting clarinet lessons, Clarissa had learnt Suzuki violin for four years, but this was discontinued when she started clarinet.
Interview responses tell us that, once Clarissa had started clarinet lessons, practice sessions regularly occurred at 7:45 a.m. and that this was the last activity in her routine before leaving for school.
Her mother reported that: I don't sit there from beginning to end like I did occasionally when she rst started, but when she is nishing her practice; I sometimes go in and applaud at the end.
. . . I practise one segment at a time.
Not many people have made any comments on my playing, so I am not sure.
Asked what were the bad things about learning clarinet, she replied: `You have to keep on playing your scales, but you need them to play songs.
What proved surprising was the degree of persistence that Clarissa demonstrated when she practised Golden Wedding, in comparison with her other literature.
With Golden Wedding, this increased to 9.83 seconds per note: a twelvefold J a m e s M . R e n w i c k a n d G a r y E . M c P h e r s o n 178 increase.
In this session, she practised the piece for 4.3 minutes before turning to another.
She then returned to Golden Wedding for 1.6 minutes for two additional run-throughs.
As Table 1 shows, comparison of the pattern of repetitions revealed additional large differences.
La Cinquantaine was practised in both Year 3 sessions (hence the variance).
In other words, in this piece she demonstrated behaviour that Gruson (1988) found to be associated with higher levels of expertise.
Strongly motivated by her desire to play in a jazz style, Clarissa asked her teacher to notate the theme of Golden Wedding in her practice diary, so that she could learn it at home.
I n t e r e s t a n d c h o i c e : s t u d e n t - s e l e c t e d r e p e r t o i r e a n d i t s e f f e c t o n p r a c t i s i n g b e h a v i o u r 183 `fun, jazzy songs to the process, providing an example of how, under the right conditions, situational interest can interact with individual interest and, over time, even create an individual interest.
The results of this case study suggest that with strong enough motivation, even quite young learners can engage in the types of self-regulatory behaviour that will enhance their J a m e s M . R e n w i c k a n d G a r y E . M c P h e r s o n 184 Fig.
Common sense would not necessarily predict that interest would lead to such behaviours, which do not emerge until more advanced grades in studies of children learning repertoire assigned by the teacher or researcher (Hallam, 1997).
Recently, there have been some signs of the emergence of more autonomy-supportive teaching strategies aimed at nurturing students individual interests.
A c k n o w l e d g e m e n t This research was supported by a large Australian Research Council grant (No.
American Educational Research Journal, 21, 75565.
Learning and Instruction, 7, 16186.
ERICSSON, K. A., KRAMPE, R. T. & TESCH-RO MER, C. (1993) `The role of deliberate practice in the acquisition of expert performance.
HALLAM, S. (1997) `Approaches to instrumental music practice of experts and novices: implications for education.
In Harald Jrgensen & Andreas C. Lehmann (Eds.), Does Practice Make Perfect?
Oslo: Norges musikkhgskole.
MCPHERSON, G. E. & RENWICK, J. M. (2001) `A longitudinal study of self-regulation in children's musical practice.
MCPHERSON, G. E & ZIMMERMAN, B. J. (2002) Self-regulation of musical learning: a social cognitive perspective.
In Richard Colwell (Ed.), The New Handbook on Music Teaching and Learning, pp.
In Suk Won Yi (Ed.), Music, Mind and Science, pp.
42033.
O'NEILL, S. A. & MCPHERSON, G. E. (2002) `Motivation.
PERSSON, R. S. (1994) `Control before shape on mastering the clarinet: a case study on commonsense teaching.
RENNINGER, K. A., HIDI, S. & KRAPP, A. (Eds.) (1992) The Role of Interest in Learning and Development.
Educational Psychologist, 26, 299323.
SLOBODA, J. A. & DAVIDSON, J. W. (1996) `The young performing musician.
Journal of Educational Psychology, 89, 45169.
Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin, 4, 4436.
