Some of this work is idiosyncratic.
But we still have much to learn from other countries.
Na Inglaterra, assim como em todos os pases, temos alguns exemplos de educao musical de qualidade.
Conceptions, functions and actions: teaching music musically.
I expect that you may feel similarly about some of the television programmes about aspects of Latin America.
It is because the weather in England is always changing.
Perhaps it is, perhaps it isnt.
Provided that teachers teach their students to compose, perform on instruments, sing and listen, and teach them to do this in a way that helps them to make progress, they will probably meet the requirements of the national curriculum.
Many primary teachers think that it is too difficult for them to implement.
Sweden introduced a national curriculum many years before England, but has recently reduced its description of its music curriculum to a few bullet points.
This is because it was thought that teachers had ceased to think sufficiently about their teaching.
Issues include the availability of training for teachers.
John Paynter offers a picture of schools where students learn through direct engagement with music as musicians, for example performers, composers or listeners.
People think that they are not musical.
We engage with the music of childrens own culture, and also help them to broaden their musical perspectives.
It may be that enjoying music helps children to enjoy school more.
The other day, he stood up from the dinner table, moved to the piano, and played the songs of his youth perfectly, and with such communication.
When the frustrations of his life now, and his limited prospects, become too much, he sits down at the piano and improvises for hours and hours But music is mainly about good times, and making them more frequent and even better.
I accept that some people describe themselves occupationally as musicians I would be mad not to accept this but I do not think that it makes sense for this or for any other reason to talk about an opposite group of non- musicians, just as we do not typically speak of non- 1 Salaman, W. 1988, p. 28-32.
10 nmero 18 outubro de 2007 revista da abem dentists, non-plumbers, non-gardeners or non- headteachers.
We all have potential as musicians, and even the most famous musicians among us have potential that remains untapped.
Some forms of training may actually interfere with the realisation of our musical potential.
No, when I used musical in this talk, other than when I explain further, I use it, as did John Paynter, simply to mean of music.
So here is an insight into just three examples of the more successful music education in England.
The (new) head of music was a singer who thought that it was important that students sang extensively, and it did not occur to him that this might be a problem given that boys (in particular) entered the school just as their voices were changing.
As the teacher did not think that he had a problem, there wasnt one!
The third example was at a comprehensive school in the middle of England, with students aged 2 Mito, H. 2002; 2004.
4 Much effective music teaching in primary schools in England is given by teachers who lack confidence, rather than competence, in their ability to teach music, e.g. Mills, J., 1997, p. 29-35; Mills, J., 1995; 1996, p. 122-126; Mills, J., 1993; Mills, J., 1989, p. 125-138.
Published schemes of work Of course, commercial schemes of work are not always a problem.
Careful research7 has suggested that music training, in particular listening to the music of Mozart, may improve young childrens ability to reason abstractly in some specific contexts.
Some might ask whether this matters.
Disciples grow up around that person, and the very good idea spreads.
In due course, the dogma falls into disuse.
Some time later, someone has a very good idea Other examples of dogma include the use of pentatonic scales when students are composing, on the grounds that everything will sound alright.
An inspector recently told me of a lesson that she observed in a secondary school, one of the very few secondary schools in England that still teaches the descant recorder to all students.
It is not a code that must be understood before any purposeful musical activity can take place.
Some jazz musicians, and children learning the violin according to the Suzuki method, for instance, cannot read music.
John Holt, in his classic book How Children Fail10 first published as long ago as 1964 wrote of a child: What she needs is a broom to sweep out her mind If she could only forget nine tenths of the facts and rules she has all mixed up in her head, she might begin to learn something.
I think that many children in England who have been taught to read music before they are ready, need a broom too.
Expect students to achieve the moon, and they will often achieve the stars.
Teaching music musically But I would not wish to end this talk by speaking of weak teaching and weak learning.
London: Penguin, 1984.
MILLS, J. Primary student teachers as musicians.
Las Palmas: J. Tafuri/Isme, 2004.
Nature, n. 365, p. 611, 1993.
Research in Music Education, n.127, p. 122-126, 1995/1996.
I look forward to working with you, over the next few days, to increase the number of such teachers, and their influence, in all of our countries.
