Participants responded to the survey before and after the introductory course in their music education curriculum.
These include singing, performing on instruments, improvising, composing, arranging, reading, notating, listening, analyzing, describing, evaluating, and understanding relationships.
Abrahams (2000) examined the extent to which goals, structure, student experiences, instruction, and evaluation of pre-service music educators in two teacher education programs are consistent with the standards.
Byo (1999) researched perceptions of 122 elementary school music teachers and 122 fourth-grade general education teachers to determine their opinions regarding implementing the standards.
Overall, the music teachers rated the singing, listening, and evaluating standards highest.
The most class time was devoted to the singing, performing on instruments, and reading and notating standards.
In the Louk (2002) study, the reading and notating, understanding music in relation to history and culture, and performing on 5 instruments standards were indicated to be of most importance.
The current research explores perceptions of pre-service music educators regarding their awareness of and ability to implement the National Standards for Music Education.
The current research differs in that it examines the changing perceptions of pre-service music educators as they engage in experiences with the standards during the introductory course in their undergraduate curriculum.
Survey statements regarding the standards as a whole were: I am aware of the National Standards for Music Education I feel that it is important to implement the standards I am interested in implementing the standards I feel responsible for implementing the standards I am trained to effectively implement the standards I feel able to effectively implement the standards I will have instructional time to effectively implement the standards I will have the resources necessary to effectively implement the standards.
With the exception of the first statement, all of the remaining statements were also addressed regarding each content standard.
Responses were indicated on a Likert scale consisting of: strongly agree, agree, no opinion, disagree, and strongly disagree.
Participants responded to the survey before and after the introductory course in their music education curriculum.
Each article was read and reported on by at last one member of each group.
Following this, participants engaged in a small-group lesson-planning activity where they chose three of the nine standards to implement in a lesson plan using Swing Low Sweet Chariot or Simple Gifts.
Directions for this project were: 1. Choose a piece of music (either a general music song, a choral piece, or a band or orchestra ensemble piece), and discuss in 2-3 pages how you would implement each of the nine National Standards for Music Education using that piece.
Be as specific as possible stating the names of specific instruments to be used, measures that you would use as the basis for improvisation or composition activities, specific recordings to be used in listening activities, and specific information about history or culture.
Perceptions regarding awareness of and ability to implement the standards were determined by participants completion of the survey instrument before and after the introductory course.
All of the strongly agree and agree frequencies increased after participants experienced the standards during the introductory course.
The standards that received the least frequent strongly agree and agree responses were the composing standard, followed by the understanding relationships, and improvising standards.
This finding is similar to Abrahams (2000) who reported that the pre-service music educators he investigated were generally aware of the standards.
These changes included greater awareness of and more open- mindedness toward implementing the standards.
The standards that received the least favorable responses were the composing standard, followed by the understanding relationships and improvising standards.
These findings are similar to the Byo (1999), Bell (2003), Orman (2002), and Louk (2002) findings.
In the Byo (1999) research, the music-teacher participants rated the reading and notating standard, second highest; and the improvising and composing standards, lowest.
Orman (2002) observed that the elementary general music teachers she studied devoted the most class time to the singing, performing on instruments, and reading and notating standards.
Louk (2002) reported that the elementary general music teachers she studied indicated the reading and notating, understanding music in relation to history and culture, and performing on instruments standards to be of the most importance.
The most favorably perceived standards were the reading and notating standard, followed by the evaluating standard.
Sketch the artwork as a reference.
Perform the music composition in class on [date], and also 14 hand in a copy of the score.
The composition can be of whatever length, style, form, texture etc. that the artwork dictates.
Student participation in this program addresses the composing, listening, and evaluating standards.
The score should include at least one bass xylophone or metallophone part, one alto xylophone or metallophone 15 part, one soprano xylophone or metallophone part, one alto or soprano glockenspiel part, and one un-pitched percussion part.
Your opera should include original music (composed by the class for this project), scenery, and costumes.
Also in Choral Music Methods and Instrumental Music Methods, students present short creativity/rehearsal teaching episodes.
The assignment is as follows: Present a 10-minute rehearsal episode for whatever grade-level you prefer.
After the episode, briefly state the reason(s) why you chose the activity you presented, and how it was an effective way to implement the improvisation or composing standard.
Byo, S. J. (1997).
Classroom teachers and music specialists perceived ability to implement the national standards for music education.
Fallis, T. L. (1999).
Dissertation Abstract International, 63 (02), 0485A.
(UMI No. 3042585) Mantano (1996).
38-39.
Wells, R. (1997).
