(Garland & Kahn, 1995, p.5) To many, mathematics and music are logically connected.
A result of the strong connections between mathematics and music, is the many activities written to help teachers integrate mathematics and music in the classroom (e.g., Fernandez, 1999; Greeley & Offerman, 1998; Johnson & Edelson, 2003; Stevens, Sharp & Nelson, 2001).
The BOSNSW (1996) sees a purpose of an integrated teaching approach as to enhance and maximise learning both within and across the key learning areas of the primary curriculum.
Results from this component revealed that this group of teachers held specific subject knowledge and an explicit set of beliefs about how children learn.
In addition, each teacher expressed the significance of hands-on learning that was relevant, significant and engaging for the children as well as encouraging the development of creativity.
Adam conveyed an immense love of teaching through his actions and the passion with which he spoke about teaching in both the initial and final interviews.
It holds a clearly articulated educational philosophy and methodology focused on providing meaningful support for children on their journey through the developmental phases of childhood (school prospectus).
There were two aims of the unit: first, to integrate mathematics and music through the measurement and understanding of time; and second, to foster an appreciation of the value of using time in a healthy manner (extract from program).
Recorder practice came next, with the students playing the recorders completely by ear, just echoing what Adam played.
According to Adam, through the story, they create this picture in their own mind and then they use that, as like the hook to hang concepts on.
When the students were recalling the story, they were also recalling what they had learnt about time, making it a clever teaching tool.
After recalling the story from the previous day, the lesson moved into the main teaching session for the day.
Examples of activities included a times tables grid, rhythm and pitch review, trading in subtraction, and discussions about the world clock.
Style of Teaching Adam revealed his clearly defined educational philosophy in the initial interview.
His method is based on giving students experiences, which hopefully leads them to discover new concepts.
Music is used extensively because he believes that it helps to build a more cooperative environment so its really community building in the classroom.
He 716 stated, in a whole class therell be a whole range of different ways theyve actually understood it but theyve got there out of their own little journey and the idea is that this is actually preparation for life.
In the first main lesson, Adam asked them to brainstorm everything that related to time.
He believed that his program consisted of real life integration it manifests in practical terms, in concrete terms in two different areas but what unites it is a reality that is beyond either maths or music.
However, he considered that the integration between mathematics and music involves more than just 717 knowing or feeling these connections; it is about making these connections come alive in instruction to students (initial interview).
Adam was aware that the activities the children were engaged in throughout the unit ranged in their degree of integration.
For example, at the surface level of integration, was the chanting of times tables at the beginning of every day.
This difficulty, as explained by Adam, could be linked to the way the children were naturally beginning to feel simple quadruple time in their music (four beats in a bar) but were struggling to feel simple triple time (three beats in a bar) because this is not as common.
For example, looking at reading music and time signatures related to time in music but not mathematics.
This was similar to looking at the world clock and how to tell the time, which related to time in mathematics but not music.
This indicates that Adam used a broader view of integration to that of Usiskin (2003) to create this unit, using time as the integration focus its like the imaginative picture you have in mind is what integrates at different levels.
So Adam was aware of his movement in and out of an integrated teaching approach when the need arose.
Understanding the reasons why teachers shift their approaches to instruction in this manner are important because they highlight what some teachers perceive to be barriers to such approaches being fully implemented.
He also adopted a surface level approach to integration at times so as to practice basic facts.
Curriculum integration.
Retrieved August 11, 2003, from http://www.bosnsw-k6.nsw.edu.au.
Cheek, J., & Smith, L. (1999).
Palo Alto: Dale Seymour Publications.
The Mathematics Teacher, 92(2), 90-92.
Instructional styles in the teaching of mathematics thematically.
Nisbet, S. (1990, July).
Paper presented at the thirteenth Biennial Conference of the Australian Association of Mathematics Teachers, Hobart.
In C. Kanes, M. Goos & E. Warren (Eds.), Teaching mathematics in new time (Proceedings of the 21st Annual Conference of the Mathematics Education Research Group of Australasia, pp.
Shilling, W. (2002).
Integrating maths and music in the primary classroom: A smorgasbord of ideas.
Perth: Australian Association of Mathematics Teachers.
Teaching Children Mathematics, 7(6), 376-377.
Usiskin, Z. (2003).
Reston: National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.
