Norfolk 12.
For example, in Nottingham the four full-time Enterprise Partnership managers played a crucial role in promoting and facilitating change.
The Coventry pathfinder provided an interesting example of different approaches to AS acceleration, with an AS Maths course running parallel with GCSE Maths in years 10 and 11 and an AS French course end-on with GCSE, i.e. French GCSE was completed in year 10 and AS in year 11.
Several Connexions partnerships were undergoing restructuring, suffering from financial difficulties or renegotiating contracts and this impacted upon the extent to which they were able to articulate their work with that of the pathfinders.
Since the fieldwork was completed development has continued and some of the identified issues may have been resolved and others may have arisen.
These federations provided joint A-level courses and had developed a variety of collaborative timetabling arrangements.
261.
As noted above the base for this was stronger in the South-West because of the work of the IF projects although further development was necessary, while in East Hampshire there was limited development save that undertaken by individual schools.
E-learning is still in the relatively early stages of development in both partnerships.
However, it was argued, convincingly, that the key early objectives involved establishing and strengthening collaborative cultures and structures and working hard to broaden the curriculum at 14-16.
In the NHS there was no established schools links infrastructure, such as exists in some large companies, through which partnership could be built.
A major development within this process was the appointment of a key member of staff (soon to be followed by another) within the WDC with responsibility for linking with schools (although this person is responsible for work across five London boroughs containing many schools, colleges, hospitals and other health institutions).
The patterns of partnership within the pathfinder are complex and consist of several federations - two of these are geographically-based being based in the north and south of the borough, a third is built around a Catholic sixth form college and associated schools.
386.
399.
Teachers have also been involved in training for GCSE subjects in ICT, Engineering and Health & Social Care.
Mentoring is seen as another means of raising aspirations and a range of mentoring programmes have been developed.
426.
444.
As noted above a key aim of the pathfinder is to support the broader regeneration of Sheffield.
They are designed to match the GCSE specifications in each subject.
Focus of the Pathfinder 477.
The TLGs are composed of one teacher from each of the partners.
Some level 2 vocational packages are being piloted in two schools with the aim of producing greater curriculum coherence.
As a result of this increased collaboration a much expanded 14-16 Course Menu is being offered across the city.
Some of these were newly founded and were understandably keen to make a positive impact by, for example, establishing broad-based sixth forms with some emphasis on level 3 courses.
In relation to vocational learning pathfinder has promoted both broad, general vocationalism and narrower occupationalism.
There may be a case for systematic, large scale research to clarify the size of the problems, identify potential gaps in existing provision and suggest ways forward which take account of the factors which lead to inadequate practice in some schools.
The focus on support in learning is important since it may become increasingly important that students are able to monitor, review and diagnose their own learning needs.
14-19 PATHFINDERS: THE SECOND YEAR 164 Local responsiveness and national steering 551.
The strength of this policy approach has been that it has allowed pathfinders to take a account of the range of local contextual factors described in the model of collaboration in Section Three.
This approach has produced a wide range of different approaches although not too wide in our judgement.
It has promoted a good deal of collaboration, curriculum and staff development and some exciting and innovative work.
It has helped individuals to develop as hybrid professionals with networking skills (Atkinson, Wilkin, Stott, Doherty & Kinder, 2002).
14-19 PATHFINDERS: THE SECOND YEAR 166 REFERENCES Adnett, N. & Davies, P. (2003) Schooling reforms in England: from quasi-markets to co- opetition?
London: Audit Commission.
(2001).
Bristol: Policy Press.
London: RoutledgeFalmer.
Housing Studies, 18(1), 5-28.
Cleaton, D. (1993) Careers Education and Guidance in British Schools.
London: DfES.
London: DfES.
London: DfES.
London: DfES.
Bristol: Policy Press.
London: DfES.
London: DfES.
Journal of Education Policy, 18(3), 303-314.
Research Report RR504.
London: DfES.
What is a successful partnership and how can it be measured?
Bristol: Policy Press.
Ofsted.
(2003a).
Ofsted.
(2003b).
Ofsted.
Partnerships, quasi-networks and social policy.
Bristol: Policy Press.
Raffo, C. (2003) Disaffected Young People and the Work-related Curriculum at Key Stage 4: issues of social capital development and learning as a form of cultural practice.
