Dr Deirdre Russell-Bowie, Prof.
BACKGROUND Many student teachers who are enrolled in a compulsory Primary Music Education subject as part of their teacher education have often had little experience of formal music education, are anxious about their own ability within the area of music and not at all confident about teaching music lessons to children.
Gifford (1993) and Mills (1989) cited in Richards (1999) indicate that student teachers with positive music experiences and who are musically literate enter teacher training institutions with a higher degree of confidence in their ability to teach music than do their colleagues.
Richards (1999) and Jenneret (1996) provide further examples of research which indicates students with little formal music background lack confidence in their own musical abilities and teaching skills.
there is a strong impulse to marginalise the arts in their teaching.
However the smaller study on which this paper is based used only the questions from the survey which related to music and omitted those which related to dance, drama and visual arts.
As a result, this instrument has been developed.
2. Is there a difference between frequencies of students responses to the questions relating to anxiety, confidence and their background in music and are there differences between how males and females responded to these questions?
METHOD Participants The participants were 329 university students enrolled in a teacher education program in a university in Sydney, Australia (90% females), where Creative Arts is one of the key learning areas in the schools of the state and comprise a crucial component in the teacher education program.
Survey Instrument The survey instrument was developed specifically for this study, but was based on a similar survey the author had used in 1991 to ascertain the attitudes of teachers to music and music education in New South Wales public schools (Russell-Bowie, 1993).
Students took between 10 and 20 minutes to complete the survey and surveys were collected as students completed them.
In the sample for this study, there was a diversity of attitudes in relation to student background, confidence and anxiety in music education.
The remainder indicated that they were unsure in each of these scales.
In relation to the independent demographic variables, there was a significant low negative correlation between age and background in music, (r = -.17, p = .002), in year level and anxiety in music (r = -.28, p = .000) and between TER and background in music.
(r = -.15, p = .008).
Significant low positive correlations were indicated between confidence in music and year level (r = .17, p = .004).
DISCUSSION In relation to the focus questions of this study, the following results were found: 1. Reliable set of scales from the CASA data A reliable set of scales relating to anxiety in music, confidence in music and background in music was derived from the CASA data using exploratory principal component analysis with Varimax rotation, and underwent reliability tests with Cronbachs alphas all indicating a reliability of 0.7 and above.
This has increased since the authors previous study where 60% of students entering the course indicated that they had a good music education background.
These results, which indicate that students with a better background in music education have a lower TER score, seem to work against this current research.
However, perhaps further investigations are needed in this area using the CASA and other Australian data.
What is significant are the results that indicate significant correlations between the year level and students anxiety and confidence in music.
CONCLUSION The results of the present investigation with potential teachers also have important implications for teacher education.
Positive learning experiences in music have been found to be a significant factor in breaking down barriers, changing students attitudes, lessening their anxiety, giving them confidence and new teaching ideas, and developing their self- esteem in relation to teaching each of the subjects in their classroom (Russell-Bowie, 1997).
Vol.
2 Conference Proceedings from the 3rd Asia-Pacific Symposium of Music Education Research.
August 2001.
Music Educators Journal, September 2000, 33 - 39 Flohr, J.W., Miller, D.C., and deBeus, R. (2000) EEG Studies with Young Children.
Gifford, E. (1993).
The musical training of teachers: Old problems, new insights and possible solutions.
British Journal of Music Education, 100, p.33 46.
The causal ordering of academic achievement and self-concept of ability during elementary school: A longitudinal study.
Hodges, D.A. (2000); A virtual panel of expert researchers.
Increasing creativity through art education among pre- school children.
Mills, J. The generalist Primary teacher of music: a problem of confidence.
Richards, C. (1999) Early childhood preservice teachers confidence in singing.
Journal of Music Teacher Education; Fall 1999.
Riley,R.
New sounds in primary school teacher education.
Russell-Bowie, D , Yeung, A. S., & McInerney, D. M.,.
Creative Arts: Self-concept and anxiety: do family backgrounds matter?
AARE Conference proceedings.
Arts education.
Canberra : Commonwealth of Australia.
