In most Islamic countries, educational systems promote male dominance.
Build these connections through formal and informal outreach.
For example, I have worked closely with the Disabled Library in our neigh- borhood.
Also, the local fire department has been visited during numerous field tripsthe firefighters have been especially attentive to the students because of their var- ious disabilities.
The development of trust requires warm, nurturing caregiving.
If infants are restrained too much or punished too harshly, they develop a sense of shame and doubt.
Children develop uncomfortable guilt feelings if they are irresponsible or are made to feel too anxious.
If adolescents do not adequately explore different roles and dont carve out a positive future path, they can remain confused about their identity.
It corresponds to the early adult years, the twenties and thirties.
Encourage adolescents to think independently and to freely express their views.
I surprise them by passing out sheets of art paper, old magazines, and glue with the verbal directions to tell me about themselves build a self-portraitwith torn paper.
Some experts believe that his stages are too rigid.
They know where he is and with whom at all times.
They tend to be anxious about social comparison, fail to initiate activity, and have poor communication skills.
How might you as a teacher help Maggie?
Ethnic minority parents are less edu- cated and more likely to be low-income than their White counterparts (Harwood & others, 2002).
Sixth-grade students who did not have a friend engaged in less prosocial behavior (cooperation, sharing, helping others), had lower grades, and were more emotionally distressed (depression, low well-being) than their counterparts with one or more friends.
san25820_ch03_069-112 9/4/06 09:41 PM Page 88 CONFIRMING PAGES socioemotional development, the concept applies to childrens physical and cognitive development as well.
Teachers recognize the importance of having children work and play collaboratively.
Teachers maintain a safe, healthy environment and carefully supervise children.
The environment is disorderly with little structure.
The organization of the environment limits childrens interaction with other children.
Curriculum expectations are not well matched to childrens intellectual capacities and developmental characteristics.
Researchers have found that when young children from low-income families experience a quality Head Start program, there are substantial long-term benefits.
The teacher makes no attempt to get the students to relate the pictures to any- thing else the class is doing.
They must make the change from a smaller, more personalized classroom to a larger, more impersonal school.
However, much of the research on self-esteem is correlational rather than experimental.
Thus, a stu- dent might have high self-esteem in regard to his or her school work but have low self-esteem in the areas of athletic skills, physical appearance, and social skills.
Earlier in the chapter we indicated that Erik Erikson (1968) argued that the most important issue in adolescence involves identity developmentsearching for answers to questions like these: Who am I?
4. Develop childrens coping skills.
In the third and later generations, the issues become more complex.
I am still trying to figure out whether I am a Chinese American or an American with Asian eyes.
He watched them play marbles, seeking to learn how they used and thought about the games rules.
Older children, being moral autonomists, recognize that pun- ishment is socially mediated and occurs only if a relevant person witnesses the wrongdoing and that, even then, punishment is not inevitable.
Kohlbergs Theory Lawrence Kohlberg (1976, 1986), like Piaget, stressed that moral development primarily involves moral reasoning and occurs in stages.
Like Piaget, Kohlberg thought that the mutual give-and-take of peer relations promotes more advanced moral think- ing because of the role-taking opportunities they provide children.
Moral rea- sons sometimes can be a shelter for immoral behavior.
Bank embezzlers and U.S. presidents endorse the loftiest of moral virtues, but their own behavior can prove to be immoral.
conventional reasoning In Kohlbergs theory, the middle level of moral develop- ment; at this level, internalization is intermediate in the sense that individuals abide by certain standards (internal) but these essentially are the standards of others (external).
Stage 2 Individualism, Purpose, and Exchange justice perspective A moral perspective that focuses on the rights of the individual; Kohlbergs theory is a justice perspective.
FIGURE 3.8 Kohlbergs Three Levels and Six Stages of Moral Development san25820_ch03_069-112 9/4/06 09:41 PM Page 104 CONFIRMING PAGES behave in a manner that violates their moral commitment, it places the integrity of their self at risk (Lapsley & Narvaez, 2006).
In values clarification exercises, there are no right or wrong answers.
He then finds them on the floor and hands them to Luke.
Lukes mother also talks to the principal about the situation.
She wanted to talk to Luke before she jumped to any conclusions and asked that Miss Mahoney and the principal talk to both of the boys and any other children involved.
Fostering school-family partnerships involves providing assistance to families, communicating effec- tively with families about school programs and student progress, encouraging parents to be volunteers, involving families with their children in learning activities at home, including families in school decisions, and coordinating community collaboration.
It involves going from the top-dog position to the lowest position in a school hierarchy.
STUDY, PRACTICE, AND SUCCEED Visit www.mhhe.com/santedu3e to review the chapter with self- grading quizzes and Self-Assessments, to apply the chapter mate- rial to two more Crack the Case studies, and for suggested activ- ities to develop your teaching portfolio.
