The proposed guidelines also stipulate that 50 percent of the Teacher Observation and Performance Scale (TOPS) evaluation be based on student growth.
In October 2012 Dr. Kathy Meeks, then Director of the Office of Educator Evaluation at the SCDE, requested input from the South Carolina Music Educators Association (SCMEA) regarding a means for measuring student growth in music.
In addition, the Task Force was charged with ensuring that any recommendation would also take in to account the guidelines set forth in the National Association for Music Educations (NAfME) Teacher Evaluation Position Statement and be compatible with the practical realities of teaching music in a wide variety of classroom settings.
The opportunity to contribute to this effort is a welcome one, and one that the Task Force does not take lightly.
Based on an extensive investigation of teacher evaluation systems in place in other states, a review of existing literature on music (and other arts) assessment, and input collected through a state- wide survey of hundreds of music teachers, the Task Force has crafted the following position statement on music teacher evaluation and a corresponding model for measuring student growth in music.
This implies that the evaluation instruments are used by individuals with sufficient expertise to accurately observe and interpret the outcomes under measurement.
This implies that such measures reflect national, state, and local standards and curricula and use clear criteria known to the teacher in advance.
Must, where the most easily observable outcomes of student learning in music are customarily measured in a collective manner (e.g., adjudicated ratings of large ensemble performances), limit the use of these data to valid and reliable measures and should form only part of a teachers evaluation.
1 The entire statement may be accessed here: http://musiced.nafme.org/about/position-statements/teacher- evaluation SC Music Educator Evaluation Rev. 5/10/13 page 5 In light of the aforementioned guiding principles and criteria, the Task Force makes the following specific recommendations for music teacher evaluation in South Carolina public schools: 1. Eliminate from a music teachers evaluation formula all School Value-Added measures as these factors are not directly associated with a teachers influence on student music growth or achievement and therefore are irrelevant to the measure of a music teachers effectiveness.
2. In keeping with the SCDE proposal, we recommend that the balance of a music teachers evaluation formula (referred to as the Teacher Observation and Performance Scale [TOPS] formula) match that of the Classroom Teacher TOPS formula, with 50 percent (as of this writing) based on the measurement of student growth as it relates directly to the 2010 South Carolina Visual and Performing Arts Curriculum Standards.
general music, band, etc.) and grade levels; and d) comparable to measures used in other disciplines.
3. TOPS evaluations must be conducted by individuals with adequate training in music.
4. The SCDE should consider carefully that the significant percentage of evaluation placed on student growth may have a negative impact on an experienced teacher's willingness to serve as a mentor for a student teacher or field experience student.
Likewise, appropriate consideration should be given when assessing student growth within the mentor teacher's evaluation process.
What follows is an adaptation (with permission) of the Tennessee model for use with the South Carolina Visual and Performing Arts Curriculum Standards (2010) without adding unreasonable expense or time/resource commitments for teachers, students or administrators.
There is no single common student performance measure.
1. Teachers will collect, select and assess student work samples using a purposeful sampling process.
4. The blind peer review process will be conducted by trained content-area teachers who will review the student work samples and score the portfolios.
SC Music Educator Evaluation Rev. 5/10/13 page 7 COMPLIATION GUIDELINES A completed portfolio contains a cover sheet questionnaire, evidence collections, evidence collection explanation forms, and a score sheet completed by the teacher.
b.
2. Evidence Collection a. Teachers will review the Evidence Collection Guide (below) and compile a purposeful sample of student growth samples (a minimum of four Evidence Collections, one per selected standard).
b.
Teachers will include student growth evidence collections that are standards-based and that are meaningful/authentic measures of student learning.
5. Submit: Teachers will submit the completed portfolio for blind peer review.
EVIDENCE COLLECTION GUIDE An Evidence Collection is a group of student work samples that demonstrate student growth.
Teachers will submit a portfolio of evidence that demonstrates student growth in at least four of the six SCVPA 2010 curriculum standards.
Evidence collections should contain student work that shows a comparison between at least two points in time (e.g., pre-post or post-post).
1. Evidence may include student work products, audio and visual recordings, adjudicated festival performance assessment reports, end of year course examinations, or other state approved measures.4 2. Evidence representing various populations of students work should be represented within the portfolio (e.g., emerging, proficient, advanced, children with special needs, etc.) 3. Evidence can be declared to show growth in more than one domain.
The current state standards do contain a degree of overlap.
For example, the SC VPA 2010 Standard 2 Creating may also contain elements of SC VPA 2010 Standard 1 Performing.
More info available here: http://thegladisproject.org/ 4 Although students may participate in music ensembles in multiple years, student growth will be measured within each academic year.
b) The teacher of multiple areas would NOT have to submit four Evidence Collections for each area taught.
ii) Type II Evidence shows growth for sub-populations within a class (e.g., emerging, proficient, advanced, special needs, etc.).
SCORING STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT WHEN COLLECTING EVIDENCE.
Teachers will classify each student achievement sample using the labels Below Basic, Basic, Proficient, or Advanced (or a similar system subject to SCDE approval).
Though the teacher self-ratings will not be used as part of the overall score of the portfolio, it will be used to compare the teachers perceptions against the ratings of the peer reviewer.
In cases where there are still discrepancies, a district-level administrator will oversee the final scoring of the portfolio.
If it is impossible to remove references in order to display the evidence, it is left up to the discretion of the teacher whether or not to include it.
