Here we encounter social and political ideals of anti-racism; democratic and humanistic ideals of developing respect for others in a pluralistic society, and of helping members of minority communities to participate more fully in Canadian culture by respecting and celebrating their contribution to our multicultural mosaic+ 1 Canada's two colonizing founding peoples were British and French, but increasing numbers of immigrants and refugees from all parts of the world have changed the demographic profile of Canada.
SeeMoodley (1995),p.
The student needs to experience a wide variety of music, drawn from a variety of Musics, in order to develop a concept of MUSIC.
The musical and educational ideals of multicultural music education involve concepts of community.
I hoped that my paper would help focus discussion among ISME seminar participants about approaches to teacher education in world musics being developed in other countries.
When we educate in music, we are constructing an important part of society's view of itself ....
It provided a foundation for other world music course offerings.
Thecourse advocates the holistic approach to music; but the key phrase is music as a social fact'."lO During the 1990s,Kippen has taught Music as Culture and has also offered several ethnomusicology courses, designed forMusicology students but available as electives to Music Education students: Music of Sub-Saharan Africa, Classical Music of North India, and Topics in Ethnomusicology . In 1991-2,the Folk Music Ensembles were renamed World Music Ensembles, to reflect the wider variety of music represented.
In 1993-4,four new courses, grouped under the title Education in World Music, were introduced, combining aspects of the World Music Ensembles with the Multicultural Music Education course, and replacing those courses.
29, 1995.
1 J. Kippen, personal correspondence with P. Shand, May 20, 1996.
Five courses were The:o!d into four.
The 1995-6 offerings , were: West African Drumming and Dancing, Middle Eastern and Persian Music, ;.
(While the old World Music Ensembles had been offered on a credit/no credit basis, Education in World Music courses were graded.) A: ;j , ,The 1995-6 student assessment was based on two components: (1) the student's practical contribution to his or her particular world musicensernble, and (2) a project, consisting of an essay on one of the following: (a) the adaptability of the music for the general school curriculum; (b) an historical/cultural investigation into certain aspects of the music; (c) an analytical/theoretical study of the structure of the music; (d) an assessment of the original context of performance, and analysis efaspects of performance practice including technique.
10.
Elliott (1989),p.
10.
In March I administered a questionnaire to the students and another to the four instructors.
Students felt that they developed skills of performance, listening, memorization, reading, and analysis; that they learned repertoire; that they acquired knowledge; that they gained appreciation and enjoymentof themusic and cultures; and that they learned some materials which could be adapted for use in a school situation.I?
Garnelan is a unique ensemble that requires co-operation.
Also Moroccan liras are easy.
The instructors views of what the students had learned were congruent both with students views and with their own course objectives.
The deeper the immersion, the more it will help.
I am not claimingthat gamelanclasseswill provide miraculous results . . ., but they should make the students a little more aware of different cultural and musical perceptions and activities.
The instructors attributed student attitude changes to having taken World Music courses, citing the development of a broader and less ethnocentric view of music, a heightened awareness of other systems of music and culture in general, insight into another way of learning and practising music, and students increased versatility.
We need not look beyond the decisive demographic changes in Toronto over the past 25 years ....
This is the real challenge of our time -- to shift from an insular, Euro- centric view to a broader one of music as a function of humanity.
1simply did not understand the music.
She notes; I've particularly tried this year to connect all my courses, constantly researching ...
World Music.
This desire for ~ gives particular poignancy to the frequent complaint of students and instructors that 50 minutes a week is simply not adequate for learning the music of another culture.22 Assessment of Education in World Music Courses Education in World Music courses clearly are not satisfying the basic ethnomusicological ideal of bimusicality or complete fluency in another music.
A supplemental academic module ...
The primary ethnomusicological goal of the Education in World Musics program is purely and simply the students cultural enrichment.
Students will, of course, learn about the structure and cultural context in their own research, but the use of video material of the music being played in its true setting, a reading list and definitely a recommended listening list would involve the students more in the music and their own learning.
10.
53 blem-solving, and as a music educator, I was impressed with the aural ;;/ii.~ro lopment achieved.
I was also impressed with the development of Pfudents'ability to memorize.
Ibelieve there's real danger of this particularly where instruction in alternative musical practices is undertaken unreflectively.W Bowman acknowledges the daunting responsibility facing genuinely reflective multicultural music teaching and learning, but nevertheless holds out the ideal that musical education must strive to nurture the capacities of full perception and informed critical judgment, capacities only fully exercised in their application to diverse musical practices, presumptions, and priorities ....
Oral transmission works best without analytical explication and artificial, out-of-context exercise, While the latter sometimes accommodates the sensibilities of Western-trained musicians, the faculty developed is new to students anyway, and best developed the way in which it is traditionally done - mimicking,memorizing short bits at a time,developing anmtuitive grasp of the idiom.
There might be other modest changes which we could make.
If we cannot afford to add courses, perhaps we could replace one or two existing courses with specialized world music courses.
The conservative would argue that the education system has an important responsibility to preserve our music, the music of the western classical tradition.
New York: Oxford University Press, 1995.
Multicultural Education in Canada: Historical Development and Current Status, in Banks,James A. (ed).Handbook of Research on Multicultural Education.
Multicultural Music Education: The Music Means Harmony Workshop.
Edited by Timothy Rice and Patricia Martin Shand.
30 International Journal of Music Education, No. 24, pp.
67-8.
