This period was launched and driven forward by a new set of technolo- gies: digitalization, data compression and the Internet.
Among these are: (1) general difficulties in anticipating the socio-economic impact of fundamentally new technological opportunities; (2) complex and time-consuming processes of establishing a new techno-institutional match; (3) technological conservatism; (4) the oligopolistic structure of the sector; as well as (5) the hierarchically structured focal companies.
The more relevant a new technology or a bundle of new and complementary tech- nologies becomes for the future reproduction of a sector, and the less that it can be fitted within the established sectoral set-up, the greater the pressure to significantly change or to adjust the existing socio-economic structures, institutions and actors be- comes.
Nevertheless, these sectors can be differentiated and this is the other end of the range of possibilities from other sectors that are characterized by a pronounced path dependence and struc- tural inertia.
At the same time, crisis-ridden and uncontrolled modes of re- structuring are likely to occur, which are generally driven forward by actors that are either from the fringes or from outside of the sector.
This crisis was shaped significantly by a new set of digital technologies that effectively called the sectors smoothly functioning mode of operation into question.
The fundamental im- petus behind the restructuring came not from the core of the sector, but instead from its fringes or rather from outside of the sector.
A high degree of transformative capacity inher- ent to the new technologies is confronted with a low level of adaptability on the part of the sector and the actors who long dominated it.
In par- ticular, the transition from vinyl records to CDs and the related opportunity of sec- ondary usage of back catalogs ensured significant growth in industry sales: world- wide sales for the recording market tripled between 1985 ($12.3 billion) and 1995 ($39.7 billion) (Hertz 1999: 63; IFPI 1999).
It al- so involved a systematic analysis of documents and news coverage since the end of the 1990s.
Even in a market of this size, total sales from music products physical recordings as well as non-physical digital music2 retreat- ed another 12.3 percent in 2009 in comparison to the previous year.
The exceptional growth in demand for CDs that supplanted that for vinyl records had already slowed down in the second half of the 1990s: with this fell profits from the largely uncreative sales idea of rereleasing older music in the newer format.
The interplay between these three technological develop- ments not only significantly changed the consumer preferences regarding usage, es- pecially amongst teenage music consumers.
The dramatic impact of these two technolog- ical developments was not anticipated but was rather underestimated by the mu- sic industry.
And the potential impact of the MP3 standard in combination with the Internet, the effects of which were already foreseeable in the middle of the 1990s, were nonetheless only belatedly recognized or initially only perceived as constituting a potential threat that should be averted (Barfe 2004: 324330; Burkart and McCourt 2006: 4450; Brandenburg 2004).
On the other hand, there were greatly diverging interest groups within the consortium itself, especially between the music and con- sumer electronics industries.
It was no longer necessary to purchase music in order to be able to make copies of it, in place of this it was available somewhere online in all its forms and could be down- loaded or erased with equal speed.
At the same time, the RIAA filed suits against other file sharing services such as Gnutella and Kazaa and was able to force through the closure of a number of other providers (Bishop 2005; Alderman 2001).
In 2001 BMG, Warner and EMI entered into a joint venture with the technology provider RealNetworks to found the downloading service MusicNet.
The iTunes stores offered nearly the complete digital repertoire from all of the five lead- ing music companies as well as those from over 1000 independent labels.
Coupled with its iPod digital music player, which was initially released in the USA in 2001, Apple was the first to be able to offer a commercial downloading and hardware package.
Up to the middle of 2007 iTunes had sold over 3 billion song titles and Apple had sold over 100 million iPods; in the second half of 2007 alone this sales total increased by a further 22 mil- lion iPods (Apple 2007, 2008; heise-online News v. 2007.10.17; heise-online News v. 2008.1.24).
In the end the Majors had no other choice but to join the movement.
Going be- yond this are experiments with new online marketing and sales models for example with access to free music on social networks (as with MySpace or Facebook).
Finally, there has been a large in- crease in the number of digital releases, in other words of albums and music tracks that are no longer available in a physical format, and are instead available only as downloads (IFPI 2008, 2011).
It is available as a digital data set, which can be copied numerous times without any loss in quality, can be distributed over the Internet and can be managed from a computer.
Instead these sales take place digitally in even greater numbers via online stores.
Successful musicians and groups increasingly used the new technological opportunities in order to independently organize the production and overall market- ing of their music and thus only involve the music companies as service providers selectively or on a case-by-case basis.
What it refers to is both the capability on the part of a sectors defining structures and institutions to pick up and integrate radical new technological oppor- tunities as well as to the anticipatory and restructuring capacities of its dominant ac- tors (Dolata 2009; see also Smith et al.
Only in the face of massive and irrefutable pressures to change did they begin to stra- tegically reposition themselves to a greater extent and to abide by the new rules of the game and this often in very contradictory ways and from rapidly changing start- ing points.
And how under such cir- cumstances of a loss of control on the part of the central actors did the processes of sectoral transformation proceed?
Such adjustment would accompany a relativization of a previously successful business.
Although technology was always understood to be an important part of the infrastructure and was seen as a precondition for the music business, it was however not understood to be a factor that could structure the market and demand nor as a starting point for the attainment Dolata: The Music Industry and the Internet 23 of competitive advantages.
Until the end of the 1990s, the sec- tor was defined by a handful of companies that were hierarchically managed and ver- tically integrated and that were virtually in control of the entire value chain.
Denisoff, Serge R., 1988: Inside MTV.
New Brunswick: Transaction.
In: Ulrich Dolata/Raymund Werle (eds), Gesellschaft und die Macht der Technik.
Harvard: Berkman Centre for Internet & Society at Harvard Law School.
In: Research Poli- cy 36, 399417.
Henderson, Rebecca M./Kim B. Clark, 1990: Architectural Innovation.
IFPI (eds), 2007: The Recording Industry in Numbers 07.
The Evidence so far.
New York/Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Mnchen: Musik- markt Verlag, 1624.
In: Arthur Benz/Susanne Ltz/Uwe Schimank (eds), Hand- buch Governance.
Eingriffstiefe, Adaptionsfhigkeit, Transformationsmuster: Ein analytischer Ansatz.
Innovation in Photovoltaics and the Political Creation of Niche Markets.
In: Forschungsjournal Neue Soziale Bewegungen, 23(3), 7283.
