These National Standards provided a model for what students should know and be able to do in the arts.
5. Reading and notating music.
Furthermore, they are supposed to be a foundation for building a comprehensive and sequential curriculum in music.
First, this concerns changes in curricula in schools districts and schools where the standards should be used to guide planning the school music program.
These publications were supposed to inform the public and to help administrators, professors and music teachers to make the standards work and to implement them.
A Research Agenda for Music Education (1998): 8 This publication outlines important research questions for the music education profession, particularly concerning the implementation of the National Standards and music teaching and learning in a time of innovation and reform.
It is only possible to implement certain standards in a specific type of school such as standard 2, 3, and 6 (singing, improvising, listening) in elementary school.
The NAEP in the arts was conducted in 1971, 1978, and 1997 and will be undertaken again this school year 2008.
In the NAEP in 1997, the results were rather disappointing: Students were moderately successful with knowledge tests, but students struggled with music activities such as clapping rhythms or singing songs correctly (such as the famous tune America).
Jane Cassidy states: Test results have the potential to be used to revise future assessment tools and procedures, aid in the development of curriculum and accountability efforts at the school level, advocate administrative policy with regard to funding and staffing arts programs at the state and local level, provide direction and focus for teacher preparation programs and in-service programs, and guide the continual evolution of content standards in music education (Cassidy 2000, 7).
If the test results are used in this way, they can really change music education.
But it is important that the results are interpreted and disseminated in a way that reaches music teachers and gives them advice what to do with the results.
There were many problems with explaining the results of the NAEP in 1997 and their meaning for music education practice and teachers everyday work in classrooms (Cassidy 2000, 7).
Although these dissertations are very useful discussions of the implementation of the National Standards, only a few people are able to read the results, if they are not published in scholarly journals, because American dissertations are usually only in the library of the university where the author graduated.
Survey results from 273 postsecondary schools awarding Bachelors degrees show that 98% of the general music professors were aware of the 9 http://www.wmea.org/standards/StandardsBooklet.pdf 10 Wolfe, Keith (1996): National Standards in the Arts: A Study of the Music Curricula of Four Schools Districts in Western Pennsylvania.
(M.Ed.
Thesis).
11 McMurtrie, Benjamin M. (2005): Factors Influencing the Teaching of the State and National Standards Among High School Band Directors in the State of Ohio.
Thesis).
Bell (2003) investigated the role of National Standards in experienced music teachers classrooms and the impact of a standards-based graduate level course on their teaching.
Composing and improvisation were also identified as the most difficult standards to implement.
This finding is reassuring if one considers that all the teachers in this study began teaching before the national standards were written and published.
119 Orman raises here an interesting issue: Are the skills and the knowledge National Standards ask for, not the most usual activities in good music education classes?
Doerksens observation guide (Doerksen 2006, 69-70) specifies the various skills a music educator should have and how a successful music education lesson should look like concerning quality of classroom environment, teacher-student-interaction, quality of instruction and improvement of students performance.
One problem of the National Standards is the fact that they do not imply a specific teaching method.
While many scholars and teachers appreciate this, it is actually a difference between the National Standards in music education and in other subjects (Benedict 2003, 53-76).
This makes the implementation of the standards difficult, particularly for beginning teachers.
Many teaching materials, starting with textbooks, implement standards in a similar way, specifically naming the standards covered in a two-page lesson plan.
This is an example for implementing National Standard 3 in high school choir rehearsals, relying on the achievement standards: 3. Improvising melodies, variations, and accompaniments: Analyze given melodies.
Any melodic, harmonic, rhythmic, or electronic instruments may be used.
In general, research on the implementation of the National Standards indicates that they are realized at least to a certain degree.
However, there are still many problems concerning the National Standards in American music education.
How to make the National Standards for Music Education more effective There are many ways to improve the implementation of the National Standards in American schools.
Second, it is necessary to redefine the goals of music education.
This fact should be acknowledged particularly in a new concept of general music education.
School boards, principals and parents should realize that music education is about much more than successful competitions or recitals.
Finally, more research on the implementation of the National Standards is needed, especially research conducted by teachers, because they know the best what must be changed in order to implement the National Standards more successfully and to improve music education in American classrooms.
It cannot be sufficient to develop standards and teaching materials, if the system of music education makes it almost impossible to implement them.
The ethnomusicologist Bruno Nettl writes: The Standards seem to have the purpose of changing musical culture very substantially.
(Ph.D.
Brasher, Earlene et al.
Doerksen, David P. (2006): Evaluating Teachers of Music Performance Groups.
Floyd, Jeremiah (1994): Structures for Implementing the Standards, in: Music Educators National Conference (Ed.): The Vision for Arts Education in the 21st Century.
Reston, Virginia (USA): MENC, p. 89-101.
Lindeman, Carolynn A. (1996): Implementing the Standards: Taking Action, in: Music Educators National Conference (Ed.): Aiming for Excellence: The Impact of the Standards Movement on Music Education.
(Ph.D.
(M.Ed.
Thesis).
