These broader cultural contexts affect the final question posed above: where does school music fit amongst the other kinds of musical learning undertaken by young people?
The past decade has seen increasing research and policy interest in the informal learning that takes place beyond school, as teenagers become expert listeners in their chosen genres of pop music, and work together as performers and composers in bands run without any teacher intervention (cf.
The effects of the English National Curriculum, introduced in 1992, will be considered, in the hope that the long-term impact of defining standards in music will provide some useful questions, even warnings, for those now attempting the same challenge in relation to German music education.
Historical perspectives from the UK School music in Britain was once clearly defined and minimally debated: at the start of the twentieth century it contributed to the educational aim of turning children into good future citizens by providing them with knowledge of the classical masterworks and ensuring that they could sing tunefully and were familiar with folksongs and other national repertoire.
The first decades of the twentieth century were the era of musical appreciation classes, in which children listened to classical repertoire, at first on the piano, and later using the new technology of the gramophone and schools radio broadcasts.
The 1940s and 50s saw a growth in performance culture in schools, with the establishment of orchestras and choirs and the beginning of the extra-curricular musical provision that still characterizes UK music education today.
Where previous decades had seen children visiting their local concert halls to hear professional performers, now there were chances for the pupils themselves to be the performers, as a still traditional curriculum was supplemented by activities beyond the classroom.
Two revolutions in UK school music education were about to take place: the first, led by John Paynter and other composer-teachers, brought composing to the classroom, and championed the idea that the process of musical learning was as important as the product.
With the exception of the politically-imposed GCSE reform, change in music education had occurred slowly through the twentieth century, largely as a result of adaptation to changing musical and educational circumstances, and the influence of a few key individuals working as inspectors, teachers or writers on music education (for further detail see Pitts, 2000; and Rainbow with Cox, 2006).
Indeed, education more widely had been professionally-driven, with little political interference beyond the national system of inspection and the publication of government suggestions for various subjects and age groups.
Music, perhaps inevitably, was amongst the last subjects for which curriculum orders were drafted, by which time the core subjects of maths, science and English had already run into difficulties through over-prescriptive and unrealistic orders, which were causing a high level of professional dissatisfaction.
This brought for the Working Group the enormous challenge of capturing the best of current practice in music while ensuring a robust and achievable curriculum that would be welcomed by professionals and politicians alike.
Music in the National Curriculum When the National Curriculum for Music was introduced in 1992, teachers had only recently adapted to the change in music education brought about by the GCSE.
Their draft proposals suggested that Making Music and Understanding Music should form the structure of the curriculum; by the publication of their final report these components were changed to Performing, Composing and Appraising, the latter word intended to capture the idea of acquiring knowledge and critical skills through listening.
The Working Group were committed to holistic learning, in which all aspects of music were explored through active participation, drawing on a wide variety of genres and repertoire.
Conversely, musicians committed to providing performing and composing opportunities in schools campaigned against the governments stated desire to reduce the draft proposals still further, so threatening the thriving musical cultures in UK schools.
The National Curriculum and its impact continued to be fiercely debated by academics and educators in the subsequent decade, many expressing indignation at the loss of professional status implicit in the political drive to impose standards across the curriculum.
Exploration of musical sound and its uses and effects runs throughout the levels of attainment, involving pupils in generating, refining and critiquing musical ideas.
While the National Curriculum forms the legal basis of music education, developments in the subject continue to be more substantially influenced by the enthusiasm of individual teachers, the provision of local opportunities and resources, and the introduction of other initiatives designed to bring music to disadvantaged schools and form stronger connections with local communities.
Another prominent organisation is Musical Futures (www.musicalfutures.org.uk), a forum for sharing good practice which sponsors independent research as well as investing in school projects and innovative teaching.
Partly government- funded, Musical Futures is distinct from but sympathetic to the recent Secondary National Strategy, which has generated a professional development programme for music teachers designed to reinvigorate teaching in lower secondary education (see http://www.standards.dfes.gov.uk/secondary/keystage3/).
Musical Futures has produced a document comparing its own aims with those of the National Strategy, illustrating that their intentions are broadly comparable, while showing also that there are now multiple voices in the music education debate, reaching far beyond the statutory curriculum (download this document from http://www.musicalfutures.org.uk/teachers_pack_inner_comparative.html).
Twenty five years after its introduction, the National Curriculum has secured the place of a political voice in educational debate, ending the professional autonomy that had characterised UK education, while now restoring some of the respect and status which was lost in the wrangling over curriculum reforms.
The idea that musical understanding is acquired through active involvement is now so widespread as to be hardly mentioned, and the Music Working Group and all those who supported their proposals must take some credit for this, since the easier political decision at the 128 129 time would have been a return to more passive, classically-orientated learning.
Achieving standardisation in music education has been shown to be virtually impossible, though this goal was never strenuously enforced, and indeed would have met with considerable resistance from UK music educators, committed as they generally are to providing opportunities beyond what is measurable in music.
I hope that the hindsight of the UK experience encourages German colleagues to look beyond current music education to the potential impact of standardisation and I wish you every success in finding a musically authentic model to ensure opportunities for learning across German schools.
References Folkestad, G. (2006): Formal and informal learning situations or practices v. formal and informal ways of learning.
In: British Journal of Music Education, 23 (2): 135-145.
Green, L. (2002): How Popular Musicians Learn: A Way Ahead for Music Education.
Aldershot: Ashgate.
Paynter, J. & Aston, P. (1970): Sound and Silence: Classroom Projects in Creative Music.
London: Cambridge University Press.
Pitts, S. E. (2000): A Century of Change in Music Education.
Aldershot: Ashgate.
