Although main- streaming classes have been in place in undergraduate programs for approximately 25 years, a large segment of the population affected by legislation regarding spe- cial learners continues to misinterpret its effects (Atterbury, 1990).
Essential teacher competencies for including special learners have not yet been delineated for music teachers.
Examination and analysis of teacher competencies used by practicing elementary music educators, as well as those teacher competencies taught during elemen- tary music methods courses at the undergraduate level, provided a research base for this study.
Additionally, the extent, quality, and variety of field experiences, which are integral in undergraduate music education curricula, appropriate for the acquisi- tion of teacher competencies essential for including special learners in music classrooms (Darrow & Armstrong, 1999).
Method The data, gathered over a six-month period, repre- sent several s i tua t ions where music educators encounter special learners, either through undergradu- ate course work, undergraduate field experience, or experience as a music educator in the classroom.
For the purposes of this article, the investigation will be restricted to the competencies identified by Williams (1988), who identified twenty- six teacher competencies perceived as important by elementary classroom teachers.
Within Survey A, elementary music teachers identified teacher com- petencies used in their classrooms when including spe- cial learners.
Not all elementary music teachers in Virginia are members of VMEA; however, some non- members do attend statewide conferences.
Survey A included questions designed to determine the amount of undergraduate classroom and field experience elementary music teachers had prior to the student teaching experience.
The final ques- tion on the survey asked teachers to indicate any addi- tional areas of study or experience they thought might be beneficial to the preparation of undergraduate music education students regarding special learners.
Faculty members also responded to questions regarding field experiences for undergraduate elementary music education students at their institutions during the 199798 school year.
To ensure con- sistency of data, each teacher responded to identical questions.
Data gleaned from syllabi were used to delineate teacher competencies taught through students classroom and field experi- ences.
A compe- tency reached the designated threshold for that catego- ry when 66% or more of the respondents considered it essential.
ability to encourage appropriate social interac- tions among all students (classroom management) 11.
ability to adapt material to provide for individ- ual differences (methods and materials) 14.
Some of the fourteen competencies are recommended when teaching all students, while others are specific to the inclusion of special learners in music classrooms.
Elementary music teachers sometimes include spe- cial learners in music classrooms without having the teacher competencies considered essential according to this study.
Music teachers may be more well-prepared if these competencies are consistently included in col- lege and university music education programs.
One practical result of this research was the cre- ation of a unit of study for undergraduate music edu- cation students based upon competencies considered essential according to the study's parameters.
Ability to maintain objectivity when faced with inappropriate behaviors X 23.
16.
Competencies demonstrat- ed by undergraduate music education students during field experiences.
This spiral (rather than topical) curriculum approach provides consistent reinforcement of infor- mation.
Identifying competencies for elementary school music teachers in planning learning experiences for children with learning disabilities (Doctoral dissertation, S.U.N.Y.
Preparing reachers for mainstreaming.
Paper accepted for presentation at the Research Poster Session of the American Music Therapy Association annual conference, Cleveland, Ohio.
Connard, P. A., & Dill, C. P. (1984).
Secondary education teach- ers perceptions of their professional role regarding implica- tions of PL 94-142.
Research on music and autism: Implications for music educators.
Frisque, J., Niebur, L., & Humphreys, J. T. (1994).
Music mainstreaming practices in Arizona.
Journal of Research in Music Education, 42(2), 94-104.
Perceived effectiveness of mainstreaming in Iowa and Kansas schools.
Gilbert, J., & Asmus, E. (1981).
Attitudes toward mainstreaming stu- dents with disabilities among regular elementary music educators (Doctoral dissertation, University of Maryland, 1991).
Heller, L. (1994).
Digest of educa- tion statistics 1997 (NCES Publication No. 98-015).
Williams, D. (1988).
Regular classroom teachers perceptions of their preparedness to work with mainstreamed students as a result of preservice coursework (Doctoral dissertation, Indiana University, 1988).
Dissertation Abstracts International, 49-09A, 2622.
Silver Spring, MD: National Association for Music Therapy.
