. . . . 7 Critical Pedagogy: A Student-Centered Approach.
. . . . . . . . . 24 Appendix A: Demographic Data.
We boast an Attendance Rate of 95.7% and a Suspension rate of only 1.20%.
Of the top ten artists in the Part I results, eight of them would be found all over the Top 40 charts that week (see Appendix B).
I had never heard of this style of music before, and so, I asked my students to explain it to me.
For examples of how I have integrated dance into my curriculum, please refer to the Curriculum Map for Grades 5 and 6 (Appendix C).
The sessions occur on a rotating A/B schedule.
Therefore, I have chosen not to include them in my Curriculum Map (Appendix C).
My district does provide me with a Curriculum Document, but it seems vague.
When designing my Curriculum Map (see Appendix C), I used the pacing guide included in the districts Curriculum Document as a basis to ensure that my Curriculum Map aligns with my districts goals.
Arguably, when we view music in a purely intellectual way, we strip away one of its most important componentswho composed it and why?
I would modify this list slightly in order to better fit both the developmental level of my students and the time allotted to elementary general music class in my teaching situation.
This ordering is not arbitrary.
While both involve creating something out of nothing, the spontaneous and instantaneous nature of improvisation seems to make it a more rigorous activity than composition.
I prefer, instead, to base my curriculum around constant formative assessment.
In this section, I have given my commentary and analysis on musicing, but I have not mentioned anything about the ethical concerns that I will face as an educator.
Critical Pedagogy: A Student-Centered Approach According to Abrahams (2005), critical pedagogy (to be referred to as CP hereafter) can be defined by the following principles: (1) education is a conversation [between students and teachers]; (2) education broadens the students view of reality; (3) education is empowering; (4) education is transformative; (5) education is political (Abrahams, 2005, p. 4).
Suffice it to say, however, that choosing the correct repertoire may help to create a music classroom more in line with CP ideals.
These reports show that the incidence of ASD is rapidly increasing, and that the chances of encountering students with this diagnosis will similarly increase in the coming years.
If motivation is dependant on success, then providing more opportunities for success could increase motivation.
From the standpoint of Critical Pedagogy, Mantie gives an admonition on this topic.
The data from the ethnography allows the teacher to remain cognizant of which musical examples will celebrate the students and which will alienate them.
Based on the data obtained from the musical ethnography of MHMJ students, western classical music is not a familiar genre.
If the badge of identity theory (Hargreaves & Curricular Vision: General Music at MHMJ 17 Marshall, 2003) is applied to this situation, then a devaluing of the students music preferences equates to a devaluing of their emerging self-identity.
These processes have become the basis of the Curriculum Map (see Appendix C).
This allows me to start with familiar music styles in the early years, and yet, it ensures that the students will also have a varied musical experience once they are ready for it in the later years.
Curricular Vision: General Music at MHMJ 21 References Abrahams, F. (2005).
Atlanta, GA: Center for Disease Control.
Behaviour Research and Therapy, 42, 613- 630.
Assessment in Education 5(1), 7-73.
Music matters: A new philosophy of music education.
The new bloom's taxonomy: Implications for music education.
Teaching music to children with autism: Understandings and perspectives.
A pedagogy of possibility: Reflecting upon paolo freire's politics of education: In memory of paolo freire.
Atlanta, GA: Center for Disease Control.
Qualitative assessment of arts education.
International Journal of Music Education, 27(1), 19-36.
Students will review work from Q1, and expand knowledge to the following groups: strings, brass, wind, and percussion.
Students will listen to a narrated version of Peter and the Wolf while viewing illustrations.
Curricular Vision: General Music at MHMJ 29 Curriculum Map Grade 2 General Music Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Listening Concept Students will explore concept of meter by identifying strong and weak beats in listening examples.
Same as Q1, except with the addition of Re and Do on a five- lined staff with and X to mark the location of Do.
Students will begin to explore the idea of key by learning that Do can be placed anywhere on the staff.
Same as Q1, except with the addition of Re and Do on a five- lined staff with and X to mark the location of Do.
Curricular Vision: General Music at MHMJ 31 Curriculum Map Grade 4 General Music Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Listening Concept Students will listen to both Colonial Patriotic music and music of African Americans during Slavery in order to discuss contradictions in freedom.
Same as Q2 Same as Q2 Improvising Concept Students will be given a choice between several famous American speeches and asked to improvise a melody to fit them.
Same as Q1 Students will write a Reflection, stating what notes of theirs did or didnt seem to fit the ostinato.
Students will be assessed based on their participation in class discussions.
Students will be assessed based on their participation in class discussions.
Composing Concept Students will compose their own folk song about a topic that is of interest to them.
Students will be assessed based on their participation in this assignment.
Students will be assessed based on their participation in this assignment.
Same as Q1, except with different chord progression.
Same as Q1, except with different chord progression.
