Part of the rationale used to sell this major transformation to industrialists was the idea that educated kids would actually become more compliant and produc- tive workers.
To enhance civilization while giving people the tools to make informed decisions.
Theres a significant cultural distinction between a high school drop-out and a Yale graduate.
We teach facts, but the amount of knowledge truly absorbed is miniscule.
Whom do you want to live with?
After a self-financed trip to Prussia, he instituted the paramilitary system of education he found there, a system he wrote up and proselytized to other schools, first in the Northeast U.S. and eventually around the country.
Not because it works.
The connection revolution is upon us It sells the moment short to call this the Internet revolution.
We dont need a human being standing next to us to lecture us on how to find the square root of a number or sharpen an axe.
Protectionism isnt going to fix this problem.
Once we start to do schooling differently, well start to get something different.
Is it possible to teach willpower?
I will never forget what happened next.
Theres a myth at work here, one that cannot and will not be seriously ques- tioned.
The financially afraid who get tricked into losing their houses because they dont understand simple arithmetic.
A labor can be intended but only to the extent of doing the groundwork, or of not doing things that would clearly prevent the labor.
In fact, its a gradual process, one where you take responsibility years before you are given authority.
So, how do we make more of them?
91.
College as a ranking mechanism, a tool for slotting people into limited pigeonholes The scarcity model of the industrial age teaches us that there are only a finite number of good jobs.
Why do it?
5. Accreditation isnt the solution, its the problem.
The cost of failure has changed In an industrial setting, failure can be fatalto the worker or to the bottom line.
If were changing the legal conditions on a thousand life insurance policies, we cant afford the class action lawsuit if we do it wrong.
But if were trading hypotheses on a new scientific breakthrough, of course we have to be wrong before we can be right.
The passion of seeing progress, the hard work of practice, the joy and fear of public performance these are critical skills for our future.
What now?
The real question, though, in an always-on world, a world where I can look up what I need to know about the Battle of Hastings faster than I can type this, is, how many of these kids leave school caring to know?
If were looking for markers, we need better ones.
These fields used to be left to the desire and persistence of the individual.
You might, like Shepard Fairey, end up at Rhode Island School of Design, but more commonly, you either found a mentor or figured it out as you went.
109.What great teachers have in common is the ability to transfer emotion Every great teacher I have ever encountered is great because of her desire to communicate emotion, not (just) facts.
Time spent on blocks takes time away from painstakingly learning to draw a six, from memorizing the times tables, and from being able to remember the names of all fifty states.
If we cant (or wont, or dont want to) win the race to the bottom, perhaps we could seriously invest in the race to the top.
And so, of course, the system teaches our best and brightest how to complete the square to solve a quadratic equation.
Another reason is that many of the elements of Newtonian mechanics involve similar sorts of analysis.
Less discussed is the cost of this dark alley of abstract math.
Theres no time and theres no support.
So lets de-professionalize.
The goal is to live in the symbolic world, and to get better and better and polishing and manipulating those symbols.
For a few math students, its a stepping stone on the way to big new insights.
At the same time, though, the number of titles exploded, and the demand for libraries did as well.
Work all day and become a more civilized member of society by reading at night.
125.The famous-college trap Spend time around suburban teenagers and their parents, and pretty soon the discussion will head inexorably to the notion of going to a good college.
Either way, we ought to hold colleges to a much higher standard when it comes to transformative education.
No, the famous schools arent saddling their graduates with a lifetime of debt, one thats crippling.
And the fame of the schools that have invested in big-time sports has risen as well.
The finest technical university in the world is going to share every course with any student who is willing to expend the effort to learn.
They could be selectors of individ- uals based on the work they do elsewhere, as opposed to being the one and only place the work has to occur.
Membership in a tribe: This is perhaps the best reason to actually move to a college campus in order to get a degree.
