It has become pivotal in orientating our understanding of what the issues are and of what needs to be done.
(See, for example, Rist, 1997; Bonnett, 1999; Stables & Scott, 1999 for some recent accounts.) In the section that follows, I will attempt ISSN 1350-4622 print; 1469-5871 online/02/010009-12 2002 Taylor & Francis Ltd DOI: 10.1080/13504620120109619 10 M. Bonnett to outline what I take to be some of the central issues affecting the possibility of education for sustainable development.
Here the essence is to develop pupils own critical ability and interpretation of issues in the context of rsthand practical situations that they confront.
Both approaches to education for sustainable development, then, in their different ways, raise the issue of the nature of Western rationality and its Education for Sustainability 11 adequacy to understand and address environmental issues.
By seeming to combine the highly desired goal of development with the equally highly desired goal of conservation of valuable things endangered, it is liable to be set up as a goal which is so obviously attractive as to divert attention from its problematic nature.
Even if the `ends of any policy were clear and regarded as unproblematic, are we in a position to judge the means?
For it is our metaphysical horizons that fundamentally condition our sense of the real and therefore what is possible, what is tting and what is fantasy.
`Nature has many senses and the idea has a long history in which it has been constructed and interpreted in a large variety of contexts.
Thus, even in the case of our own physical nature we can do things that affect the well-being of our bodies, but what that well-being essen- tially consists in and the powers which it has to maintain itself and with which we interact for better or worse are not things of which we are the authors.
Here, perhaps, he con ates `nature with `wilderness.
To turn now to the issue of sustainability as a frame of mind.
A number of thinkers have intimated the importance of this and, of course, any view of how we should treat the environment expresses or assumes a certain frame of mind towards nature.
Singer, 1993).
Taylor argues that we must see ourselves as equal, interdepen- dent members with all the others in the `great Community of Life, `None is deemed more worthy of existence than another (Taylor, 1986, p. 157).
It promises a key to the perennial questions of who we are, why we are born, what is our reason for living, etc. In 14 M. Bonnett short it promises to throw light on the meaning of life.
This means, of course, that it will also set the contours of what can count as human ourishing.
It thus requires a reconsider- ation of the metaphysics expressed in Western attitudes, where metaphysics is meant not as the study of some highly abstract and abstruse realm which can only be known, if at all, post hoc, but the set of fundamentally orientating motives which are working themselves out in our time and which are expressed in, and form, the basic contours of our understanding and behaviour.
Thus alienation from nature and from self are highly interrelated and key to our ability to knowingly despoil the environment.
Richard Smith (1998) is keen to show that the kind of `attunement to which Taylor alludes need not involve high degrees of mysticism and may be found in a wide range of everyday activities.
Perhaps a paradigm case of such attentiveness would be the idealised relation- ship between mother and child in which high degrees of intuitive sensitivity to the needs of the infant are present and in which a certain reciprocity of feeling and satisfaction develop.
Transferred to interaction with the world in general, the criterion of such attentiveness seems to be something like the life-ful lling quality of our working relationship with things.
But is even this heightened notion of `attentiveness suf ciently quali ed to sustain the kind of relationship with nature that Smith seeks to establish?
He need not be motivated by greed (which it could be argued would not be compatible with his ourishing), but perhaps by an appreciation of the simple elegance of battery farming as a solution to the problem of food production.
That is, why on this account should he attend to nature?
Why should his spiritual well-being require this focus?
It is interesting that Freya Mathews (1994) makes a similar kind of assump- tion.
She is culturally well-off if she is 16 M. Bonnett richly ful lled in her emotional, imaginative, artistic, intellectual and spiritual life.
(p.
But, of course, if the `ecocosm were itself essentially meaningless or even destructive, then our identi cation with it could only undermine our own sense of meaning and worth or legitimate our own destructiveness.
Clearly any particular state of the eco-system favours some members more than others and some not at all namely those that are made extinct.
It is hard to suppress the suspicion that the semblance of genuine eco-centrism is a veneer which when scratched reveals a powerful, because disguised, anthropocentrism which prioritises those states of the eco- cosm assumed to sustain human ourishing.
Second, and leading to a similar conclusion, her argument can constrain us only to identify with those parts of the greater whole which we perceive to support us e.g. not the malaria bacillus or AIDS virus.
She simply derives from human identi cation with the ecocosm values which she has previously overtly or covertly inserted in it.
(See also, King (1997) on this.) I wish to argue that ultimately they fail because they give too little credence to the special position that human consciousness has in the greater scheme of things.
Such an artefact is nely attuned to the non-human elements in which it is to perform and thus brings them more sharply into relief, as, for example, the play of water displayed by the bows sheering through it and throwing it off in a particular way.
Not to mention the possible emotional impact of a mountain, a galaxy or a god.
Sustainability as an attitude of mind seeks openness to as many facets and signi cances of nature as possible and thereby involves a certain basic simpatico with the non-human.
Thus, this argument roots the notion of sustainability in the notion of truth and its centrality to human being.
This has clear implications for aspects of education which fall outside the formal taught curriculum, such as the attitudes and values expressed in the ethos and practices of the school and the status it accords to different activities and relationships and versions of success in life.
His earlier book, Childrens Thinking (Cassell, 1994) explored the signi cance of a poetic dimension to human understanding and he is interested in developing this in relation both to environmental attitudes and to the potential impact of ICT on the quality of learning.
E-mail: mrb25@cam.ac.uk REFERENCES BONNETT, M. (1999) Education for sustainable development: a coherent philosophy for environ- mental education?, Cambridge Journal of Education, 29(3), pp.
KING, R. (1997) Critical re ections on bio-centric environmental ethics: is it an alternative to anthropocentrism?, in: A. LIGHT & J. SMITH (Eds) Space, Place, and Environmental Ethics (Lanham, Rowman and Little eld).
MCKIBBEN, W. (1989) The End of Nature (New York, Random House).
SHIVA, V. (1992) Recovering the real meaning of sustainability, in: D. COOPER & J. PALMER (Eds) The Environment in Question (London, Routledge).
