These principles can assist in developing teaching Introduction xi strategies and help the evaluation of educational transactions, whatever the particular circumstances.
However, the artistic and musical influences, though idiosyncratic, are fairly wide and include eastern and western traditions, popular music and music of Papua New Guinea, South America and Africa.
I have tried to be as lucid and succinct as possible, though without glossing over controversy.
One ambition has been to convey something of the directness of musical encounters and address the reality of teaching.
I was very impressed.
Science and philosophy, for instance, also create meaningful expressive or communicative forms.
An emphasis by Ross on the virtues of day-dreaming, cordiality and the vernacular is in direct opposition to contemporary educational standards, learning objectives, vocational attitudes, education as preparation for work, school to work programmes, the division of the timetable into subjects, student assessment and all the other baggage and clutter of the school and college curriculum.
As Arthur Koestler brilliantly argues, all humour depends on such clashes of different worlds of meaning, sometimes sudden, as is the case with a punch-line, sometimes with different sets of possibilities running alongside over a period of time as in a farce where there may be a sustained misunderstanding which is known to the audience but not to the characters.
On the other hand some of the items on Merriams list tend to be tied in to more or less closed systems of signs.
In the previous chapter I argued that there are other functions orbiting around these central musical processes and these are often tied in with social expectations and 44 Chapter 3 cultural transmission.
Is there a feeling for expressive character and a sense of structure in what is done or said?
The accompanying drone enhances this turn of events and the harmonic shift seems to require some pointing up with a slight emphasis, perhaps with a tenuto rather than a slur.
So I worked a little more on it (or perhaps better, with it), extending the structure with an almost repeated last line but having yet another harmonic shift that seemed to bring out even more strongly the sense of massive movement implied in the words.
This is the ultimate aim of music education.
Initial earlier visits allowed us to pilot and modify an observation schedule based on the CLASP model of musical activities (Swanwick 1979).
Or is this the last jagged outcrop of sound before a very steep descent?
For existing practices can certainly be improved and it may be possible to develop more sensitive and effective ways of assessing musical achievement.
When conflating several different observations we lose a lot of important information on the way.
This was no performing monkey.
They illustrate very clearly the problems and possibilities of formal assessment.
Sometimes it is the musical range that needs extension and the question then becomes not how many notes?
We really have no idea since, in spite of a long preliminary discussion of why the arts are important to life and learning (pages 8 and 9), nowhere is there any consideration of the specific nature and communicative function of artistic expressiveness.
82 Chapter 4 Expression Level 3 (communicates) expressive character in music atmosphere and gesture or can interpret in words, visual images or movement.
Level 6 (makes) or can place music within a particular stylistic context and shows awareness of idiomatic devices and stylistic processes.
Level 8 systematically develops (new music processes) critical and analytical ideas about music.
The mode of articulation can reveal or conceal the level of understanding.
Similarly, a fluent and sensitive performer may feel lost if asked to compose or improvise and may function at a level where musical understanding is neither revealed nor extended.
Figure 6 Musical activities and musical understanding The why and how of musical 87 There is a striking symmetrical relationship between the assessments of audience- listening and composing, while performing attracts significantly lower levels of criterion descriptions.3 It appears that the same children reveal less musicality or musical quality when they play the music of other people than they do when they play their own pieces or discuss recorded music.
The argument and the evidence support the view that students should have access to a range of musical possibilities, including composing and audience-listening.
This initial impetus was followed by activities during normal school music lessons where the gamelan sessions were adapted and used as a repertory of ideas with which to compose.
An initial preparatory day for teachers was spent in anticipation of the students spending up to two days working at the Centre, and these workshops either preceded or were followed by related work in schools.
Each school initially identified one project class of Year 7 students (age 11+) to follow the scheme throughout the three years.
You can try things out and experiment with more ideas.
Id never done anything like that before in my life.
That was different and we had to concentrate.
It was very relaxing.
It was easy to play and Andy showed us what to do.
The class chose a film and then we split into smaller groups and created different things.
It was just like talking to a normal person.
Class-sized groups were often uncomfortably large for the project activities.
For example, five of the project schools were to attend a rehearsal of Birtwistles controversial new work Panic and Varses Ionisation, both involving percussion playing and relating directly to previous work in schools.
Such musical activities are not only more open-ended but they may also be perceived as authentic, involving real instruments, real music, real musicians and real music-making settings, unlike the cumulative and incremental teaching that characterises an institutional curriculum.
Inspectors have raised questions about the quality of work, the conditions under which music is taught and the morale of secondary music teachers (Mills 1994).
There is certainly not much evidence here of either the second or third principles in action.
And the students and the parents knew this and valued it.
109 However, no shuffling of time and resources can replace the integrity of the teacher and the quality of the educational transaction, whether in studio, school, college or community.
Campbell, Patricia Shehan (1998) Songs in Their Heads: Music and Its Meaning in Childrens Lives, New York and Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Finnegan, R. (1989) The Hidden Musicians: Music-making in an English Town, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Francis, L. J. (1987) The decline in attitudes towards religious education among 815 year olds, Educational Studies 13, 2. Gans, H. J. (1974) High Culture and Popular Culture, New York: Basic Books.
Swanwick, K. (1997) Assessing musical quality in the National Curriculum, British Journal of Music Education 14, 3. Swanwick, K. and Jarvis, C. (1990) The Tower Hamlets String Teaching Project: A Research Report, London: University of London Institute of Education.
