The experiences within the conducting class offered students opportunities to use their imagination to envision possibilities, form hypotheses to self-evaluate, and question the sources of their understanding.
Eight participants were in their first year of enrollment and six were in their second year.
Participants sat outside the rehearsal room and were asked to limit their physical activity in order to obtain a sample of baseline EDA, which reflects general arousal during the anticipatory segments of a rehearsal sequence.
The phasic components were then ranked by magnitude, with the six highest SCRs matched to corresponding sections of the teaching videos.
For the group, it appears that instruction demands the greatest amount of processing effort, followed by monitoring/conducting.
The authors suggest that a biosensor may be helpful as an additional means of diagnosing skill development needs among pre-service music teachers.
Ohio Wesleyan University, Delaware.
Classroom teachers and music specialists perceived ability to implement the national standards for music education.
Doi:10.1317/journal.0001679 Lpez-Gonzlez, M., Limb, CJ.
Wehr-Flowers, E. (2006).
The National Standards for Music Education: Awareness of, and attitudes toward, by secondary music educators in Missouri.
Study of additional authors, who wrote on the capstone course and its justification, has helped me structure the course as it appears today on our campus.
It appears that most often these are addressed in a group of seminars during the student teaching semester.
Living longer, more socially and physically active, the Third Age is searching for fulfilling and enjoyable activities to stimulate their minds, bodies, and souls.
Of those who do incorporate adult learning methods, 83% revealed that the instrumental and/or choral secondary methods courses were most commonly targeted to introduce andragogy concepts.
The senior adult population continues to grow in number and in need of enjoyable and meaningful educational activities.
Florida State University, Tallahassee.
Five additional items asked respondents to indicate (YES/NO) if their institutions had doctoral music education students perform student/class observations, teach music education classes, supervision field/student teaching experiences, participate in various teacher-related activities, and participate in various scholarly activities.
The first survey concerned music students of any discipline (performance, music theory, music education, etc) and focused on the course offerings and ensembles with music improvisation components.
This survey was conducted at the Canadian University Music Society Conference in 2012 and was completed by 35 individuals (n=35) representing 16 universities.
The present study was conducted with the intent of providing an understanding of the inclusion of improvisation in universities in hope that educators addressing educational reform and increased inclusion of the skill may do so from a more informed standpoint.
During three subsequent different teaching videos (private lesson, first grade music class, and high school band warm-up), treatment participants (n = 60) were asked specifically to notice What did the students do?
We speculated that specific directions to observe students might cause treatment participants to mention students more frequently than teachers.
The number of supervisory observations was usually equal to the number of times a student participated in field experience.
Sistema Canada Teacher Reflections.
Following the demographic portion of the study, subjects completed a series of six open-ended questions.
As per required ethics at the primary researchers home institution, participants first read and completed the online consent form and then proceeded to the online survey, which took approximately 30 minutes to complete.
Participants were found to be innovative, constantly evaluating their performance, and reflective, especially as related to the organizational structure of their specific program.
This exploratory case study investigated the possibilities of training pre-service music educators to serve as mentors for young composers.
Fayetteville.
A total of 32 data points were collected per individual student, with the only personal data requested being year in school and major area of emphasis (choral, instrumental, etc.).
At the beginning of their student teaching experience, participants completed a survey based on the work of Austin and Reinhardt (1999), Payne (1990), and Biasutti (2010).
Error Detection Skills in Music Education Candidates.
What kinds of skills are choral majors most likely to hear (or miss) when listening to a chorus and when listening to a band?
These planned errors included pitch, rhythm, text, balance/dynamics, tempo, and articulation errors, and they were distributed among high, middle, and low voices and instrumental ranges.
Means, standard deviations, and ranges will be used to describe students preferences for interpersonal behavior interpersonal behavior.
7. What current applications of technology might be used to enhance formative feedback before, during, or after pre-service music teaching episodes in methods courses or student teaching?
Carmona, G., Stroup, W., & Davis, S. (2006).
Journal of the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning, 11(2), 1633.
(Unpublished masters thesis).
Florida State University, Tallahassee.
Perceptions of Learned Teaching Behaviors by Undergraduate Music Education Majors: A Pilot Study.
Specifically, eye contact, movement toward and among the group, maintaining an effective rehearsal pace, and use of effective physiological communication were among the highest rated teaching behaviors taught and demonstrated.
East Carolina University, Greenville.
In order to answer what instructors consider to be the primary purpose or objective for their secondary instrumental methods course, a previously established descriptive approach that utilized qualitative coding techniques was employed to create a taxonomy for the participants open-ended responses (Juchniewicz, 2010; Madsen & Kelly, 2002).
Of the 212 responses, four consistent themes, Performance Skills (n = 84), Pedagogical Skills (n = 81), Content Knowledge (n = 40), and Vocational Preparation (n = 7), emerged from the woodwind, brass, and combined wind instrumental methods courses.
These influences ranged from conducting techniques to rehearsal techniques including pacing and classroom management.
Understanding this type of modeling and how it shapes the occupational identities of music education students can be critical to developing future conductor teachers.
Young Harris College, Young Harris, GA.
