Those adopting a surface approach to their own studies were most likely to adopt a student focused approach.
For example, the teaching provides valuable experience (Lantz, Smith & Branney, 2008), and the opportunity to develop a range of important skills (Myers, 2000).
Therefore, factors relating to the individual tutor, such as self confidence and the tutors attitudes towards teaching, knowledge and learning, may exert an important influence on their practice, and it cannot be assumed that training (when provided) sufficiently prepares postgraduates for their teaching role.
Similarly, teachers who focus on information-transfer type teaching may represent a category of learner that adopts a surface or strategic study approach.
Zhang (2004) indicates that different thinking styles are largely associated with different teaching approaches.
It comprises two components: efficacy expectations (i.e., belief in personal capacity to affect behaviour); and outcome expectations (i.e., belief that the behaviour will result in a desired outcome).
Existing research has however focused on the experience of trainee teachers and graduate teaching assistants, who may represent a different demographic to those of postgraduates.
The paucity of research in this area prevented a more specific prediction.
The majority of participants were female (87 female, 27 male, 2 undisclosed), were registered on full-time studentships (61.1%), and undertook teaching duties through choice rather than being contractually obliged to do so (57.5%).
Individuals attending Postgraduates who Teach Network (PGwT) and Psychology Postgraduate Affairs Group (PsyPAG) events were invited to complete paper copies of the questionnaire.
An online version of the questionnaire was advertised to postgraduate teachers via PGwT and PsyPAG mailing lists and associated social networking websites.
The Revised Two-factor Study Process Questionnaire (R-SPQ-2F) developed by Biggs, et al., (2001) measures the extent to which respondents adopt a deep or surface approach to studying.
The Teacher Self-Efficacy Scale (Schwarzer, et al., 1999) was developed from Banduras (1997) Social Cognitive Theory of self-efficacy to measure teachers perceptions of self-efficacy.
The General Self-efficacy Scale (Schwarzer & Jerusalem, 1995) measures optimistic self-beliefs (i.e., personal agency) to cope with life stressors.
Participants rated ten items on a 7 point rating scale (1 = strongly disagree, 7 = strongly agree), indicating the extent to which they agree with each statement.
A model predicting the development of a student-focused approach to teaching was also significant (F (4,90) = 10.30, p < .001).
Results showed that postgraduates who had received formal training (M = 55.17, SD = 7.42) scored more highly (t (104) = 2.47, p < .05) on teacher self-efficacy than those who had no prior training (M = 51.50, SD = 7.88).
Concerns over data collection methods for research of this nature is highlighted by Kane, Sandretto and Heath (2002), who suggest the use of multiple data sources in enhancing the validity of research.
This experience is reminiscent of the tension between teaching and research previously reported in the pedagogic literature (Astin & Chang, 1995).
For example, supervision of dissertations may lead to publication and teaching may be based within a particular subject specialism.
Furthermore, the approach to research adopted may impact on teaching practice and the subsequent student experience.
This is particularly important as a substantial amount of teaching is delivered by postgraduates and these individuals may not receive the same level of institutional support as other teachers.
Furthermore, postgraduates may have fewer opportunities to integrate their teaching and research, for example little opportunity to supervise undergraduate research in their area of interest.
10 Postgraduates with higher levels of teacher self-efficacy were more likely to adopt a student focused approach to teaching practice.
Further it was revealed that those postgraduates who had received formal instruction on teaching scored more highly on measures of teacher self- efficacy.
To conclude, the findings provide evidence of a relationship between teachers own approach to learning, self-efficacy and approaches to teaching practice; relationships that have not been sufficiently addressed in the educational literature.
In P.M.
Shand (Ed), Music education entering the 21st century (pp 8590).
Nedlands, AU: International Society for Music Education.
The revised two-factor Study Process Questionnaire: R-SPQ-2F.
Scholarship Reconsidered: Priorities of the Professoriate, Princeton University Press, The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, Princeton, NJ.
Teaching in Higher Education, 6, 43-56.
A proposal for an international collaborative research programme to identify the impact of initial training on University teachers.
Gow, L., & Kember, D. (1993).
Psychology postgraduates perspectives on teaching-related support and training.
National Postgraduate Committee (2001).
Postgraduate students as teachers.
In B. Dartt and G. Boulton- Lewis (Eds).
European Journal of Psychological Assessment, 18, 242-251.
General Self-Efficacy Scale.
Causal and control beliefs (pp.
35-37).
Viel-Ruma, K., Houchins, D., Jolivette, K., & Benson, G. (2010).
Efficacy beliefs of Special Educators: The relationships among collective efficacy, teacher self-efficacy and job satisfaction.
Weimer, M., & Lenze, L. F. (1997).
Wertheim, C., & Leyser, Y. (2002).
