Specials are a way for students to express themselves in different ways outside of the classroom.
These non-core curriculum classes help students become well-rounded individuals.
Non-core curriculum classes impact students character understanding and comprehension of character motivation of themselves.
This way, students will get the benefits of having specials without taking away that much classroom time (Best, 1997).
Patrick Ledesma believes that incorporating different specials in the day is beneficial to all elementary school students.
In the video from an elementary school classroom, the students are incorporating art with geometry.
Also agreeing that specials should be included in schools, Chen states that students can learn from having more non-core curriculum classes in school.
The non-core curriculum classes help a child physically, mentally, and emotionally.
Specials allow the students to express themselves in ways that they cannot in the classroom.
These classes such as participating in visual and performing arts promote healthy social-emotional development which could improve a students academic achievement in school (Brouillette, 2010).
Non-core curriculum classes are important to a childs development as well.
With creativity and imagination, students will be able to write stories better, be able to complete math problems by seeing them in different ways, and be able to understand social studies and science concepts better (Holzer, 2009).
To keep students reading, schools have libraries which are the only source of books for some children.
De Groot discusses that because of the state budget cuts, a classroom teacher cannot be expected to teach the children if he or she is not fully trained in that subject.
The use of reading books would integrate Language Arts throughout the school day.
By having the libraries and librarians cut out of elementary schools, the students are losing quality education because they will not be getting the information they need from all different types of books.
At the same time, the authors had reservations about technology use.
Glazer, Hannafin, Polly, and Rich, also stress the importance of technology use in the classroom for learning and the importance of students using the technology for growth.
With students becoming overweight at such an early age, elementary students do not like Physical Education class as much anymore.
Physical Education has become a main issue of concern throughout all school systems.
They want to keep the students active, not make them sit in a desk longer.
The good aspect is that PE classes get the students up and moving.
The students will be able to carry this life skill with them throughout their whole life.
NFL player, Brendon Ayanbadejo, states that P.E.
Keep Gym in School goes beyond the elementary schools.
While the NFL is in schools promoting keeping Physical Education, they are also working on the legislative aspect as well to enforce keeping P.E.
McKenzie and Kahan state that physical activity and health classes should be included in the school day even in elementary school because physical education is one of the eight components of the school health program and is mandated in nearly all states.
Increased parental, community, and city involvement would also have to become in effect in order to help the students be aware of physical activity (Kretchmar, 2008).
The National Football League has seen the dangers of the children not understanding their health and their body.
(Berke, Colwell, 2004).
Best argues that only one non-core curriculum class a year is necessary.
He states that students will not get their wide variety of experiences but the students will get enough to be able to survive.
They allow for a student to release energy that builds up throughout the school day.
Hidden curriculum takes place in every subject.
In specials, the hidden curriculum is what is important.
Specials also increase peer to peer interaction, increase conflict-resolution skills, and improve problem solving skills.
Non- core curriculum classes promote a healthy social-emotional development which will improve a students academic achievement (Brouillette, 2010).
The students will want to incorporate what they are working on in the classes they like which will create new ideas.
Non-core curriculum is important to a students life by the multiple styles that can be taught and learned from.
Specials allow the students to express themselves in different ways.
(2004).
Art, technology, and the human imperative.
(March 6, 2011).
[Video Segment].
& Lowry, P.K.
Kretchmar, R.S.
Family Relations, 48(3), Academic Search Premier.
