Colleen M. Conway, Michigan State University The Development of Teaching Cases for Instrumental Music Methods Courses Music teacher educators have articulated that developing instruc- tional techniques for teaching sound decision-making and fostering reflective thinking skills in undergraduate music education methods courses are important challenges for the profession (Atterbury, 1994; Barry, 1996; Gromko, 1995; Robbins, 1993; Wing, 1993, 1996).
In response to the call for more descriptive research to document practice and for the use of teaching cases in music teacher education, the purpose of the study described here was to develop teaching cases for instrumental music education methods courses through analysis of current teaching practice.
She sug- gests that how the investigator views the world affects the entire research process-from conceptualizing a problem, to collecting and analyzing data, to interpreting the findings (p.
The researcher's personal experiences and insights are an important part of the inquiry and critical to under- standing the phenomenon (p.
I observed and interviewed instrumental music teachers in a public school setting.
(c) Which of these issues does the researcher perceive would foster discussion and debate in an instru- mental methods course?
Although all three sites used in this study were primarily upper middle class suburban communities, it was felt that preservice teachers might learn from these teachers and the decisions made in these settings.
The elementary teacher had been teaching instrumental music for 17 years.
Both of the middle school teachers taught in a fifth- through eighth-grade building in a large suburban district in upstate New York.
The other middle school teacher in the study had been teaching at Levinsky College of Education on August 2, 2012jrm.sagepub.comDownloaded from JRME 347 in his present position for three years.
He had previously taught fourth- through eighth-grade instrumental music, including strings, in an urban school in upstate New York.
The high school teacher had been teaching in a large suburban school district on Long Island for 11 years.
Member checks are used to verify information with research partici- pants.
Each teacher was fol- lowed through daily teaching activities, meetings, and rehearsals.
Teachers were asked to explain or discuss issues that had previously been observed or discussed.
As all of these researchers suggest, analysis of qualitative data does not occur at the end of a research study but is integrated into all phases of the research process.
In the first analysis phase, the stated research questions were used as a frame- work, and elements common to all teachers in the study were locat- ed and coded.
Interesting elements common to only one or a few of the teachers were coded as well.
Space will not allow for the teaching cases (each case is 5-10 at Levinsky College of Education on August 2, 2012jrm.sagepub.comDownloaded from 350 CONWAY pages) developed through the process to be published here.
How- ever, descriptions of all categories developed from the analyses and selected case material (extracts) are presented below.
Full teaching cases may be obtained from my dissertation (Conway, 1997).
The four narratives in this category describe various curricular viewpoints seen in teacher inter- actions with students during small-groups lessons.
After they have sung the exercise, the teacher estab- lishes tonality and the students then play it.
Scheduling The four stories in this category describe instrumental teachers dealing with the inevitable conflict caused by rehearsal scheduling at Levinsky College of Education on August 2, 2012jrm.sagepub.comDownloaded from JRME 351 and pullout lesson program designs.
[Elementary teacher to fifth-grade band] Assessment and Grading This category includes descriptions of the variety of procedures used by these instrumental teachers to accomplish the task of grad- ing.
One teacher commented: at Levinsky College of Education on August 2, 2012jrm.sagepub.comDownloaded from 352 CONWAY A lot of grading in my mind is what is the relationship between a student's potential and what they are doing?
One teacher said: When I play along with the kids on my flute I guess I am playing by ear on the easier pieces; but, on the more complicated ones, I'm transposing.
Here is an example: The students and teacher discuss how to finger a pitch.
58).
The categories presented in the results section of this paper document some of the instrumental music topic areas that preservice teachers must study and reflect on in their undergraduate preparation.
Jordon (1989) says that case studies should become the central edu- cational design in both undergraduate and graduate music educa- tion programs.
58).
Several education- al casebooks have been created based on survey data (Broudy, 1990; Greenwood & Parkay, 1989; Kowalski, Weaver, & Henson, 1990).
Barry, B. (1996).
Promoting reflective practice in an elementary music meth- ods course.
Qualitative research methods for the social sciences.
Journal of Music TeacherEducation, 4 (2), 8-13.
Grossman, P. L. (1990).
(1996).
Syllabi for music methods cours- es.
Patton, M. Q. (1990).
An analysis of state requirements for college or uni- versity accreditation in music education.
An investigation of undergraduate music education curriculum content.
The intern teacher casebook: Cases and commentaries.
Educational Researcher, 15 (2), 6. Shulman, L. (1992).
London: Sage.
London: Sage.
Bulletin of the Councilfor Research in Music Education, no. 117, 51-65.
