Experiencing the arts through music, poetry, paintings, books or plays opens our imaginations, enhances our sense of community and provide us with a common language.
But not all students in Ontario have equal access to the arts.
Knowledge is limited.
In a recent survey of Ontario music teachers and classroom teachers of music, almost 60% reported they had inadequate funds for their elementary music program.
Learning Through the Arts, The Royal Conservatory of Music the funding generated by preparation time may be used to pay for specialist teachers.
Virtually all music teachers in small schools are part-time.6 Fundraising for the arts Parents fundraise for arts- related programs in more than one third of elementary schools.
The point is that what is best understood or expressed in music, in movement, or in a drawing cannot be paraphrased in words.
Schools report an increase in fundraising for music programs and there has been an increase in fees for arts courses.
Students study advanced music theory, music history and a range of musical forms.
They are also expected to have examined the historical, cultural and social significance of dance.
Drama students in secondary school study theatrical conventions and techniques, explore a range of dramatic forms, and examine historical approaches to acting, directing and play writing.
In visual arts, students can theoretically choose from a range of courses in visual and media arts; art history, analysis and production of a variety of art forms, and art from around the world.
That is a whole story unto itself.
Programs are being cut, and small rural schools are struggling to provide programs.
Because the enrolment in arts courses is down, fewer of them are offered.10 Because of the decrease in enrolment in arts courses, schools are forced to combine two, and sometimes three, grades into one arts class in order to keep the section viable.
There are a limited number of students and there is little extra funding to provide arts teachers for small classes.
Some boards solve this problem by offering selected courses in a limited number of schools, but in large rural boards this increases transportation costs or restricts participation enrolment to those who are able to get to the specialized schools on their own.
The publishers say that the decline in sales mirrors the decline in school libraries and the loss of teacher-librarians.12 Results from People for Educations tracking project show that the number of elementary schools with a teacher-librarian (full- or part-time) has declined by 30% since 1997/98.
Because of the drop in Canadian sales and in sales to Canadian school libraries, publishers and authors are turning to the United States for a large part of their sales (up to 60% of sales for some).
Research has shown that the benefits of having well-equipped school libraries staffed by teacher-librarians include the creation of capable and avid readers, learners who are information literate, teachers who are partnering with the teacher librarians to create high-quality learning experiences.14 A recent report on Canadian school libraries notes, The lack of Canadian content on the internet is eroding the Canadian perspective in schools....Children need Canadian books for the value of ideas, experiences, common ground.
Canadian books validate the student's world.15 Research shows that the arts in schools have a positive effect on students learning.
Moreover, one of the critical research findings is that the learning in and through the arts can help level the playing field for youngsters from disadvantaged circumstances.16 A 1997 study by the Ontario Research Council synthesised three decades of research, documenting the substantial benefits of the arts in education.
Higher level skills developed in part through the arts are essential to success in the workplace, such as adaptability, imagination, and communication skills.
Arts education helps students to learn other subjects, because the arts draw on different kinds of intelligences, or ways of thinking.17 Any justification for the arts should be made in terms of the important and unique contributions that arise from arts edu- cation.
For example, the arts are particularly im- portant for experiencing the joy of creating, de- veloping attention to de- tail, and learning ways of expressing thoughts, knowledge, and feelings beyond words.
In regard to the arts, it stated: ...
Not only does every student have the right to be introduced to the arts as an area of cultural knowledge, learners also need ways of making abstract ideas concrete....
Other benefits to students included the development of arts skills, exploring curriculum topics through the arts, and laying the foundation for a lifelong love of the arts.19 The arts and students at-risk For many of the students identified as at risk in secondary schools, the arts provide their only source of engagement in school life.
A National Union of Teachers spokesperson commented: Subjects such as history, geography and the arts are suffering because of the governments obsession with tests, targets and tables.25 In a survey examining the state of music education in developed countries, an Australian academic described Englands schools: In order for teachers to find time each day to implement this compulsory literacy hour, and for other economic reasons, Music in the National Curriculum with its testable stages has been discontinued, the arts are no longer compulsory, and many music centers and arts education support positions have been abolished....many generalist teachers feel they have little time, expertise or support for implementing an effective music program.26 United States Like England, there are many indications that American schools are losing arts programs and arts teachers.
An arts education specialist notes that new mandates from the No Child Left Behind Act places more emphasis on math, science and reading and offer incentives to schools performing well in those areas.27 This approach is underlined by the Bush administrations 2004 Budget, which proposes to eliminate all funding for the Department of Educations arts education program.28 After interviewing 1,000 school principals in New York, Maryland, New Mexico and Indiana, the Council for Basic Education released a People for Education Arts Education in Ontario 14 study in March which found that 25% reported a decline in time spent teaching the arts during the past school year.
A third of the principals expected a greater reduction in coming years.29 Author Richard Louv comments on the debilitating cuts that arts education has experienced over the past two decades and the outlook for the future: As many as one-third of the nations public school music programs have been dropped.in Milwaukee, budget cuts mean that many students in the citys public schools reach their teen years without ever having touched a musical instrument or paintbrush, according to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel..30 Funding cuts to both education and culture have had an indirect impact on students access to outside artists.
And in rural Ontario, inadequate transportation budgets make it difficult for school boards to bus students to larger centres where they can attend professional theatre or music performances.
Properly funded, and staffed with appropriately trained teachers, arts education can provide students with equitable access to the arts regardless of socio- economic background.
The Recorder, Vol.
11.
People for Education Secondary Tracking Report, 2004.
12.
People for Education Secondary Tracking Report, 2004.
Toronto: 1997, p. 10 ff.
II, p. 40.
Dr. Rena Upitis and Dr. Katharine Smithrim, Learning Through the Arts, National Assessment 1999 - 2002, Final Report to the Royal Conservatory of Music, Queens University, 2003, p.2.
<http://www.premier.gov.on.ca/english/News/ Literacy042204_speech.asp> 24.
<http://www.literacytrust.org.uk/Database/stats/keystatistics.html#11-year-olds english reading scores> 25.
<http:// www.education.guardian.co.uk/ofsted/story/0,7348,1141028,00.html> 26.
<http://www.roseneath.ca/Presenters/communityresidencies.html> 32.
