Yet many of the same theorists are anxious to portray music as a source of cognitive enrichment, a means of bringing order to unruly impulses, or a vehicle for infusing the coolness of intellect with the warming effects of emotion.
The history of reflection on the nature and value of music is a game of hide and seek: hide the body and its materiality, its subjectivity, its temporality, and its specificity; then seek compensatory value in characteristics deemed durable, objective 2and trustworthythe formal, the structural, the ideal.
This notion of autonomous aesthetic experience rooted in refined perceptual sensibilities was ill equipped, however, to account for music's broad social significance or its centrality in human cultural life; so that formula was amended to stipulate a capacity to advance the mind (aesthetic cognitivism) and the heart (expressive aesthetic cognitivism).
The music education profession endorsed the idea of aesthetic education, an endeavor to which all the arts (generally considered to be music, art, dance, drama, and creative writing) are held to contribute in virtue of a common aesthetic root.
Despite these major differences, both were theories of musical perception or reception, the fundamental requisite for aesthetic doctrines.
Performing and performance-based pedagogical practices are often as un-minded and resistant to change as theory is disembodied.
For Dalcroze (1921), music was not an exclusively auditory or acoustic phenomenon: I came to the conclusion, he wrote, that the motive and dynamic element of music depends not only on the hearing but on another sense.
6Dalcroze believed that children have an instinctive sense for rhythm and time, derived from breathing and gait, and that these were useful in modeling the measure and division of time.
Since every movement involves energy, time, and space, muscular energy could be made the basis of a music pedagogy emphasizing gradations of force, transitions, and contrasts.10 Nuances of both time (allegro, andante) and energy (forte, piano) could be developed through bodily movement.
Thus, eurhythmics sought to provide a bodily basis for musical conceptsin contrast, presumably, to developing concepts about music.
From knowing Inaction to Knowing-in-Action As indicated earlier, the theoretical orientation on which North American music education relied for a substantial part of the latter half of the twentieth century was aesthetic education.
Musical actions must not be regarded as mere skills, executed according to the directives of mind.
46) Bowman suggests that in his concern to deliver music education from the vagaries of the aesthetic, Elliott perhaps left intact the abstract, dualistic philosophical roots from which this unwieldy creature [the aesthetic conception of music] grew in the first place (p.47).
The body represents a common point of reference in all music, says Bowman, and conversely, it sets significant limits on the range of aural/sonorous experience that can sustain a claim to musicality (p.55).
Music making involves the embodied negotiation of a musical field.
As fundamentally corporeal achievements, he argues, both listening and performing are rooted in bodily experiencethough not exclusively the experiences/actions of the musicing body.
As such, music is an important resource for world making, for the construction, reinforcement, and/or reconstruction of realities and identitiesnot only musical, but the more broadly social and cultural identities alluded to later in this chapter.25 And because of the bodily grounding of both listening and performing, it is deeply misguided to relegate such modes of engagement to different populations, the populations of consumers and producers respectively.26 Philosophical efforts like those discussed here27 help show the inseparability of knowing and doing in processes of musical engagement,28 and point to potentially unique educational possibilities involving music.
128).
Although Schutz does not make explicit reference to the body or to embodiment, the body is implicit in his description of individuals living together through the same flux, [and] growing older together while the musical process lasts (p.
Steinhardt (1998), for instance, writes of a zone of magic, a near-spiritual sense of merging with a larger force when performing with the Guarneri String Quartet.
At the heart of Keils theory were notions of bodily action, engagement, participation, and musical grooveeach bodily mediated and each corporeally-dependent.
But ki originates in corporeality and consciousness, of which kata, the visual, choreographed aspect of sound is a critical part.
Powell examines these culturally- based concepts of the body as it is engaged in music-making in order to illuminate the ways in which knowledge is situated in socially and culturally prescribed systems of meaning that are grounded in the lived experience of the body.
The body is engaged in a collective experience with others and with a collective consciousness that extends beyond corporeal boundaries.
Identity, then, is dynamically constructed though social practices and articulationsthrough the convergence of discrete, unrelated elements within specific circumstances (Gilroy, 1987; Negus, 1996).
As such, musical experiences are invariably grounded in cultural interactions, rituals, and habits.
The further point, which cannot be expanded upon here, is that musics sonorous nature and sounds remarkable capacity to grip the body makes it uniquely powerful among such mediating influences.
But of course that is not the point: the point is, rather, that music is distinctively, perhaps uniquely, a form of embodied agency; the unity of the body- mind is a fact that musical experience39 demonstrates vividly, compellingly, irrefutably.
And this recognition, challenging though it is to frame with linguistic practices that lack musics conspicuous bodily resonance,40 opens the door to concerns with potentially far- reaching pedagogical significance.
Music education needs to develop bodily-informed pedagogies that effectively address action-based listening abilities in performers and non- performers alike.
22 References Alperson, P. (1991).
New York: Hill & Wang.
Blacking, J. (1973).
Bowman, W. (2000).
In L. Bresler (Ed.), Knowing bodies, moving minds: Toward embodied teaching and learning (pp.
Enlightened cherishing: An essay on aesthetic education.
Listening reconsidered.
Feld, S. (1990).
Feld, S., & Basso, K. H. (Eds.).
Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Making music together: A study in social relationship.
That disciplines mentalistic propensities have tended to construe music making as psychomotor activity in which body follows minds directives.
The professions fondness of Piaget, in whose theories physical operations constitute a kind of prelude to the capacity for mental abstraction, is a case in point.
16 Exception might be taken to this assertion, in view of the extraordinarily broad conceptual range the term aesthetic has come to represent over the years.
His further point is that such amateur (for the love of it) engagements are otherwise the norm.
30 A more comprehensive treatment than we are able to give here would need to explore bodily approaches including Pilates, Feldenkrais, Bartenieff, among others.
33 Our mental conceptions of how to do something and the sensations we have while we do it are never separated, he continues.
41 Where else in the curriculum do we continue to influence so directly and extensively the way children sit, stand, move, breathe, or hold their bodies?
