What are the main risks and problems that occur in moving from elementary to secondary school?
An emotional paradox exists for students; students are both excited and anxious, both doubtful and hopeful.
For all of the reasons and ways outlined in this report, it makes good sense for educators, policy makers, and researchers to focus on these cultural shifts, and the effects they have for different groups of students.
The largest gap in knowledge remains in understanding fully the meso level of classes, friends, and families this is where the intersections of culture and individual meet.
This allows for the opportunity to pose and answer more difficult questions.
This document provides an overview of the published and grey3 literature and research regarding the transitions and pathways from elementary to secondary school.
What are the main risks and problems that occur in moving from elementary to secondary school?
Following a brief description of the methods, and a more detailed outline of our conceptual framework, we address the answer to the first question.
Tilleczek, forthcoming).
Appendix A provides an annotated bibliography of the most significant sources (not included on the DVD).
These consistencies exist at the level of the culture as a whole, including beliefs systems and/or ideologies (p.
These strategies are placed within the realities of the labour market, the shifting transition from school to work for young people, and the place of schooling in contemporary society.
They are in process of being themselves in their everyday lives.
Smink and Schargel (2004) prefer to use the term at-risk to depict a situation, rather than an individual, and in fact, recommend the use of the phrase students in at-risk situations.
Finally, some popular conceptions of risk for children should be challenged because risk by association can translate into guilt by association.
Moreover peer groups were found to be a source of academic support those deriding academics more the exception than the rule.
Akos (2004) further states that many students viewed the transition as relatively easy and Kirkpatrick (2004) reports that they were looking forward to a fresh start with the greater challenges and more interesting opportunities for meeting friends and studying new subjects.
As a result, they concentrated more on the risk of being separated from their friends in class (Kvaslund, 2000).
Even with the host of quantitative longitudinal data sets, studies aim to examine only one level and issue at one point in time (before, during the adjustment, or following the transition).
In Ontario, early school leavers were most often living below the poverty line and provided detailed accounts of the ways in which their being poor related to their process of disengaging.
On the whole, they found the teachers and teaching quite boring and quite different with fewer possibilities of real involvement and action (Pietarinen, 2000; p.390).
The latter were started within the last few weeks of elementary school and continued for several weeks after transition.
He also suggests sending high school students into elementary schools for discussions; joint arrangement of tours and visits; and the implement of hotlines and/or website for parents and students are useful.
A contradiction exists, however, in that many students also express anxiety about the transition.
Students are both excited and anxious, both doubtful and hopeful.
Z 9. Implications and Future Directions Practically speaking, Tables 1 and 2 provide a host of evidence-based risks and practices that can be attended to in transition programming.
We should attend to the coherence of transition initiatives that are already in place.
214) Since that time, a good deal of research has been conducted on the risk and protective factors surrounding the transition from elementary to secondary school.
We need to understand which barriers and facilitators are shorter term, and which are longer term and why.
School Transitions: Beginnings of the End or New Beginning?
Journal of Adolescent Research, Vol.
19, p3-30.
Journal of Marriage and the Family, Vol.
Journal of Adolescent Research, Vol.
20, p333-347.
Howard, S., & Johnson, B. (2004).
In R. Lerner & W. Damon (Eds).
36, p143-162.
17, Issue 6, p543-562.
Journal of Youth Studies, Vol.
British Journal of Developmental Psychology, Vol.
Science Achievement and Attitudes at Primary and Secondary Interface.
Pushor, D. (2007).
Reyes, O., Gillock, K. L., et al.
The Impact of School Transitions in Early Adolescence on the Self-System and Perceived Social Context of Poor Urban Youth.
Self-Perceptions of Ability and Achievement Across High School Transition: Investigation of a State-Trait Model.
The Journal of Experimental Education, Vol.
New York, Aldine.
Tilleczek, K. (Ed.) (forthcoming).
Examining Youth and School Cultures.
Journal of Youth Studies, Vol.
