16).
16).
16).
Upon comparing formalized Canadian music education to informal music learning, it may seem that formal music education is overly rigid and standardized, as it adheres to a set curriculum that requires quantifiable assessment of learning outcomes.
This can be seen in The Ministry of Education - Province of British Columbia (2010) Curriculum Guide that focuses on structure and form within music education, and how curriculum should provide learning outcomes that can be expressed in measurable and observable terms (p.
Further, while informal learning practices have provided many popular musicians with their musical skills and knowledge, the challenge for music educators in incorporating these informal practices into their classrooms is not only how to implement it, but to address 3 the challenge of creating and developing spaces within the classroom where music can be expressed as a medium, practice, and art that carries, reflects and instills values (Mans, 2009, p. 89), not simply as a skill that is honed through solitary practice, repetition and systematic achievement of seemingly arbitrary goals.
214).
Examples of participatory cultures include online social communities (e.g., Youtube), creative digital forms of expression (e.g., video mash-ups), and disseminating media and content through such forums as blogs (Jenkins, 2009, p. xii; Jenkins 2006b).
These virtual collaborative learning environments are termed affinity spaces by James Gee (2003), where youth engage in experimental learning and knowledge sharing in collaboration with others, rather than the conservative and solitary regimented learning environments of formal school education (Jenkins, 2009, pp.
Within virtual affinity spaces, youth are able to create new identities for themselves, where they are able to learn, share their expertise, and be a part of a knowledge sharing community that fosters creativity and expression, all without judgment of their background, 5 ethnicity, and most importantly, age.
More importantly to music learning, many of these videos incorporate complex music creation and editing, which youth have learned within the context of experimenting with these technologies.
Participatory cultures not only encompass many aspects of informal learning practices, but also allow youth to be musically creative and expressive individuals, and provide an outlet for civic engagement and a place to express ones values.
This provides youth with ways of communication that are relevant and familiar, as Prensky (2001) notes that in comparison to their pre-digital age educators, contemporary students have become technologically literate from early childhood.
By providing a way for youth to connect their interests outside of school to meaningful concepts in the classroom, educators may find a way to critically engage their students in ways that traditional routes have not had a chance to do otherwise.
By implementing equal access to all students, this reduces the possibilities for creative expression for the youth already engaging with these technologies in advanced ways.
The second concern for Jenkins (2009) is the transparency problem, where the increased access of the Internet and mobile devices allows for an inundation of information available at a moments notice, and youth do not always have the knowledge and awareness to critically understand the messages within the media.
Take for example the scenario where youth are learning to sing via tutorials broadcast by other teens on YouTube the content, lyrics and messages in the song they are learning may potentially be morally, ethically or socially offensive, yet without critical thought or discussion about that, youth may be oblivious to the underlying messages.
Youth do not always have the knowledge to be able to differentiate between what is good and bad online, and connect it to what is ethical in the physical world.
9 Possibilities for Music Education If the purpose of education were to provide students with the skills and knowledge to become full participants in their creative, public and social communities (The New London Group, as cited in Cope & Kalantzis, 2003), then it would appear that music education would also hope to encompass those goals.
To enable youth to achieve this inclusive sense of community through music education, music educators need to understand how their students experience music both in and outside of school, and more so, allow their students to contribute to their music education with their own knowledge and skills.
By envisioning music education within the classroom as a space to equally explore formal curriculum, informal music learning practices and aspects of participatory cultures, music educators may potentially be able to foster this comprehensive goal for educating youth to become a part of this creative, social, technological and civic community.
Just as Green (2007) poses that informal music learning practices are able to be a part of formal music education, it would seem that the affinity spaces found in participatory cultures could also foster a new identity for music education, where music educators build upon their students existing skills and competencies in informal music practices and technology.
Music is a large part of contemporary youths lives and culture, especially as musical creation, learning and expression are possible without the assistance or supervision of an adult.
Making artistic popular music: the goal of true folk.
Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Multiliteracies: Literacy learning and the design of social futures.
Music, informal learning and the school: A new classroom pedagogy.
Lucy Green Responds [Response to panel.
Why study music?
New York, NY: New York University Press.
Jenkins, H. (2006b).
Fans, bloggers, and gamers: exploring participatory culture.
Cambridge: MIT Press.
Informal learning and values.
Action, Criticism, and Theory for Music Education, 8(2), 7993.
Retrieved from http://act.maydaygroup.org/articles/Mans8_2.pdf.
Music: Kindergarten to grade 7: Curriculum 2010.
Retrieved from http://www.bced.gov.bc.ca/irp/ pdfs/arts_education/2010musick7.pdf ONeill, S. A. (2002).
Oxford University Press.
Mahwah, New Jersey: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Publishers.
Oxford University Press.
Annual Conference of the Canadian Society for the Study of Education (CSSE), University of Fredericton & St. Thomas University, New Brunswick, Canada, May 2011.
On The Horizon, 9(5), 1-6.
Retrieved from http://www.marcprensky.com/writing/prensky%20- %20digital%20natives,%20 digital%20immigrants%20-%20part1.pdf 
