Contemporary Issues in Technology and Teacher Education, 11(4) 399 A pedagogical objective of this assignment was to increase the interaction among preservice teachers for the purpose of improving the following: (a) their understanding of musical vernacular, genres, and cultures; (b) their appreciation of the relationships among personal, social, and cultural identities; and (c) an introduction to digital learning technologies as a platform for community building.
In this paper we explore the complexity of digital literacy (i.e., digital communication and expression) as the ability to construct and represent meaning from multiple sign systems: aural, visual, and linguistic.
(pp.
The scope and purpose for developing music literacy is often coached in terms of artistic, cognitive, social, and political objectives (Pietra & Bidner, 2010).
Secondary to this goal but also important is the understanding of the utilitarian role of music education in sustaining musical heritage and national unity (Kodly, 1939/1974).
This current study hypothesizes that digital learning technologies (DLT), such as the GarageBand computer application combined with electronic bulletin boards, can be used to support the conventional understanding of music literacy while fostering the aesthetic and creative enterprise of developing music literacy.
This negotiation is different than during a face-to-face interaction, during which humans have learned to pick up social, behavioral cues as part of our everyday communicative process (Garcia & Jacbos, 1999; Hale, 1992; Jones, 1998).
Discussion via an online forum also disrupts existing processes of identity construction.
The majority of these studies explore how electronic bulletin boards can be used to empower learners (Pena-Shaff & Nicholls, 2004; Suzuki & Calzo, 2004).
A growing number of studies have explored how the public forum of the electronic bulletin board may create anxiety or even silence learners; a significant number of these studies focus on English language learners (Groen & Li, 2005; Keller, 2005 ).
However, an abundance of studies demonstrate ways electronic bulletin boards can empower learners (Hoadley & Linn, 2000; Lantolf, 2000; Murray, 2000), improve students critical thinking skills (Yang, Newby, & Robert, 2007), and positively impact learner disposition (Rowley & Urquhart, 2007).
Music education specialists also incorporate structural elements as a key aspect of their classroom instruction.
The primary objectives of the course were articulated as emphasizing the importance of cultivating critical-thinking skills in students, as this ability relates to the social context within which individuals create, share, and appreciate music.
The study analyzes data from 17 of the 36 students.
In keeping with the cohort focus on DLT integration, the music education course had the support of a graduate research assistant (GRA) who introduced preservice teachers to the GarageBand application and the online bulletin board at the onset of the school year.
Another objective was to provide an environment conducive to community learning.
Exit interviews with preservice teachers took place at the end of their teacher preparation program.
Preservice teachers were also invited to comment on any aspect of digital technologies use (areas of success and improvement, for instance).
Kelly explained that Music class is how kids learn about our cultural heritage.
One preservice teacher observed, I get stressed whenever I have to writewhen other people are going to read my writing.
I didnt want that.
E. Maybe because I wouldnt want to be smiling at everyone, you know?
This, of course, is a highly conservative perspective.
For centuries people have been known to use found objects to play music.
1. It encouraged them to think more critically about a variety of music genres, as well as their own biases or assumptions about music education and literacy in general: It was really cool because [student named] originally put up folk music, and I wasnt expecting it.
Laura explained, I found that because I could access it at any time, I would check it at weird hours, like 1:00 in the morning, more cause I was curious if anyone had responded to my work, but also what was posted about someone elses work.
They raised specific concerns about abandoning what they identified as a central objective to music educationteaching students to read and write music.
That is the purpose of music class, so I still dont get where the technology stuff fits in, or at least I didnt until the end.
(This perspective provides a contrasting view to the other preservice teachers for whom the class appeared to support their appreciation of the masters of music education.) Tania stated, I know that [the music course GRA] suggested that I listen to some classical music, but no way.
I still struggle with how I want kids to see me.
For example, Mary was concerned at the onset of the year as to whether she came across as too shy or quiet.
It was tricky to work in groups because we didnt know each others music that well.
I didnt want that.
For instance, 10 of the 17 preservice teachers cared more about developing student appreciation of the social and cultural significance of music education.
I dont think we can have it both ways.
(pp.
Exploring Discussion Via an Online Forum The selection of music material became important to the study participants in terms of defining themselves as prospective educators.
The necessity to disrupt existing conceptions of music literacy becomes evident if the intent is to encourage preservice teachers to develop music literacy in all children rather than performance ability in a few.
(p.
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.
Action, Critism, and Theory of Music Education, 4(2), 125-142.
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.
Lam, W.S.: (2004).
Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press.
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.
Language Learning and Technology, 4(2), 43-57.
(1996).
Analyzing student interactions and meaning construction in computer bulletin board discussions.
Computers in the Schools, 22(1/2), 57-69.
The art of case research.
Electronic literacies: Language, culture, and power in online education: One way to fix our schools.
However, the original article may also include video and audio files, which can be accessed on the World Wide Web at http://www.citejournal.org 
