Dordrecht, The Netherlands: Springer.
In all affairs it's a healthy thing now and then to hang a question mark on the things you have long taken for granted.
In 1997, The MayDay Group developed and distributed Action for Change in Music Education, a manifesto of seven action ideals designed to challenge the current thinking and practices of the music education profession ("Action ideals of the mayday group, 1997).
If preponderance of writing is any indication of importance, then the most significant conversation of the book is this one.
It is no surprise then that the authors who address curriculum within this text begin at this philosophical embarkation, rejecting the traditional aesthetic rationale for music education.
Yet over time, concomitant with educational trends brought forth by an increasingly pluralistic society, music education began shifting from a high art focus to a more . . . egalitarian focus.
22).
18).
12 Review 2 - http://www.ijea.org/v12r2/ 4 In Musicianship, Musical Identity, and Meaning as Embodied Practice, David Herbert moves Johnsons argument forward.
Music learned in school should have some connection to the music the student engages with outside of school and that musicianship should be understood as an embodied practice situated in sociocultural contexts (p.
Johnson contends that bands, choirs, and orchestras are practicing and teaching musical understanding and skills that are self contained, useful only within a very limited and now largely historic repertory, and are mostly inapplicable and even counterproductive for present musical applications and understandings (p.
18).
Herbert comments that the phenomenon of school bands represents a notable example of institutionalized music with increasingly dubious connections to the reality of community music practices (p.
Both writers agree that the performance-driven goals of large ensembles do not foster the type of musicianship that is needed in the present.
In the former, traditional musicality is focused on replicating the performance practices associated with art music; while in the latter, everyday musicality is a complex web of interactions that are not always about the sound itself.
Disavowing the aesthetic rationale for determining what should be worthy of study in music, they question many of the practices that sprang from this fount: performance oriented ensembles, exclusive focus on classical art music, and a learning system centered around learning to read notation and developing performance skill.
xxxvi).
To answer this, David Elliot and Sandra Stauffer each offer an essay reflecting on a music education philosophy that can guide curricular design in the new century.
175) Stauffer explains that each teacher operates in a place unlike any other and that foregrounding questions of who and where offer the teacher a critical lens with which to examine their individual contexts as sites for transformation in music education.
12 Review 2 - http://www.ijea.org/v12r2/ 6 Julia Koza opens the conversation by interrogating who is admitted to reputable music programs housed in major universities.
These students, Koza states, in their desire to be good teachers, are likely to perpetuate a musical monlingualism that will foster a vast cultural divide between themselves and many of their students (p.
In Dis-Orientations of Desire: Music Education Queer, Gould responds to the intent of Action Ideal #3 which states that teachers should channel and influence student musical interactions (p.
In contrast, Gould argues for disorienting, or a queering of music education practice.
67).
Gould desires for these queer moments in music education [to] become not moments of cultural relativism or canonical loss, but rather musical engagements of potentiality opening different ways of musician-ness that do not depend on teacher/student dyads or our musical culture/your musical culture distinctions (p.
67).
Following a cogent explanation of this philosophy which on its own is helpful to anyone seeking clarification of the basic principles of semiotics, Goble turns his attention to considering answers for the questions inherent in the injunction of Action Ideal #3 for music teachers as agents of change.
Noting the many ways that music is threaded into the fabric of mainstream life by way of software, video games, media Nichols: Music education for changing times 7 and otherwise, Goble concludes that perhaps music educators should adjust their efforts from replication of past musical works to considering the personal and social effects of contemporary musical practice.
xxxv).
Bowman rejects the notion that there is one true way to teach and learn music.
He makes the case that the values of music and music education are always socially and politically motivated, and are relative to the ways they serve human living (p.
5).
Thomas Regelskis conclusion to the book makes this same point.
These beginnings include a reaffirmation of music not as a collection of works, but of practices.
Nichols: Music education for changing times 9 A Closing Response Music Education for Changing Times is a cogent collection of critique, well written and clearly organized to communicate the overarching agenda of the MayDay Group.
The authors themselves make a strong case that the times have changed: the aesthetic philosophy which so permeated the thinking of the middle of the last century has been challenged by praxialism; society is diversifying and communicating faster than ever before; economics and narrowing political perspectives on what it means to be educated have wrought stunning curtailment of the arts in schooling; and the ability to be musical outside of formal school structures has exploded due in part to the exponential expansion of personal technology.
Including popular and world musics, teaching composition and improvisation, or broadening the school offerings beyond performing groups is laudable, but to propose these practices as remedies for what the authors contend is ailing contemporary music education is at best shallow and at worst tired.
Music Education for Changing Times: Guiding Visions for Practice hangs a question mark on music education practices that may have long been taken for granted (Russell, 1953).
Nichols: Music education for changing times 11 References Action ideals of the mayday group.
Retrieved 30 January, 2011, from http://www.maydaygroup.org/php/actionideals.php Adderley, C., Kennedy, M., & Berz, W. (2003).
New York: Oxford University Press.
Morrison, S. J. (2001).
Regelski, T. A., & Gates, J. T. (Eds.).
Dordrecht, The Netherlands: Springer.
from the University of Tennessee, and a D.M.A.
Matthew Thibeault University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, U.S.A.
Chee Hoo Lum Nanyang Technological University, Singapore Marissa McClure University of Arizona, U.S.A.
Editorial Board Peter F. Abbs University of Sussex, U.K.
