Thus, with no doubt the professionalism, knowledge and skills of the music teacher are of significant importance.
The respondents were also asked to describe their qualification as teachers.
Autio, T. (2011).
Ruismki, H. & Ruokonen, I. (2006).
Questionnaire covered self-study of students attitude to the development of readiness for innovative activities, their understanding of the nature of the music teachers innovative activities, critical judgments about personal difficulties as to implementation of innovations into the music teaching process etc. According to the data acquired future music teachers were divided into those, who do not understand the nature of innovation and its importance to the music teaching process, who only possess a few skills and poor knowledge (low level); those who understand the importance of innovation for a music teacher, but have incorrect understanding of the actual concept and, at the same time, have partial possession of knowledge and skills (intermediate level); those who understand both the nature of a music teachers innovative activity and its importance in the music-teaching process, possess thorough relevant knowledge and skills (high level).
Thus, they decide to have more theoretical activities in an attempt to keep control of the class's behaviour.
It can be concluded that there are several similarities and differences between the contents of the two music teachers portfolios.
Huang (2007) points out if music teachers can make good use of their teaching portfolios and reflection to assess students learning and their own teaching process, it will be helpful to improve their professional knowledge and ability of assessment for students music learning.
Assessment can be integrated with teaching.
In the meanwhile, the researchers tried to record all the participants assessment design ideas and reflection of the assessments after implementation.
According to D. Hargreaves (2002), the most important thing is not to know whom you want to become, but who you are actually.
However, P. Fletcher (1987) and D. Sell (1992) indicated several dangers pertaining to multicultural music education.
The grand mean of Group A was 13.06.
There was no indigenous music provided in textbooks in 1983.
Perhaps, music educators need to thoroughly rethink the appropriateness of instructional content and teaching strategies as they teach students multicultural music in their general music classrooms, especially indigenous music.
S. Leong (Ed.) Music in Schools and Teacher Education: A global perspective.
S. Leong (Ed.) Music in Schools and Teacher Education: A global perspective.
Lynch, M. P., Eilers, R. E., Oller, D. K. & Urbano, R. C. (1990).
S. Leong (Ed.) Music in Schools and Teacher Education: A global perspective.
S. Leong (Ed.) Music in Schools and Teacher Education: A global perspective.
S. Leong (Ed.) Music in Schools and Teacher Education: A global perspective.
Violin professor Gza Szilvay teaches groups in Finland and around the world from initial stages with the Colourstrings method.
Violin professor Gza Szilvay teaches groups in Finland and around the world from initial stages with the Colourstrings method.
The master class teachers in violoncello have been Gary Hoffman and Alexander Rudin.
If tools such as computer games can be used to improve intonation and sound quality in addition to technical skills in a playful and engaging way, using a new technological solution can be a great contribution to music education overall.
To learn something new all the time and to perform were the most motivating experiences for Finnish children.
There are different kinds of levels of learning found in the process.
Viulua verkossa.
Acta Universitatis Tamperensis, 1522.
Figuring in the same style as G. Mahler, a great composer and an excellent conductor, an orchestra is a world or a kind of community: there are rules and restrictions, other members to pay attention to, and a leader to be followed.
U. Neisser (1976) suggests that imagery arises from schemata.
According to A.R.
Participants in these studies report hearing a continuation of music in auditory imagery during a silent gap in the middle of a familiar piece of music (Kraemer et al., 2005).
4. According to the results, both of the study groups improved their playing during the practice period.
The prevalence and nature of imagined music in the everyday lives of music students.
Delige, I., Mlen, M., Stammers, D. & Cross, I. (1996).
Can auditory memory for tone pitch be rehearsed?
Constraints on theories of inner speech.
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
New York: ACM Press, 976985.
Accepted 30.08.2013 Problems in Music Pedagogy, Vol.12(2), 2013 ISSN 1691-2721 123 THE ACQUISITION OF THE LANGUAGE OF DANCE IN THE CLASSICAL DANCE STUDY COURSE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF STUDENT-DANCE TEACHERS INTERPRETETION SKILL Sandra VTOLA Riga Teacher Training and Educational Management Academy, Latvia e-mail: sandra.vitola@rpiva.lv Abstract The language through which a dance is revealed and expressed is determined by the specificity of this kind of art.
Therefore, styles, being a historical product, characterize dance genres with a uniform system of movements typical of that period with the language of dance, reflecting the dance trends prevailing in that historical period and having both essential distinctions and common features.
The system of contemporary classical dance consists of both the developed movement techniques and their performance, and also of choreographic forms, styles and manner of performing that have been elaborated throughout centuries.
The exercise in each basic movement Pli (demi et grand), Battement tendu, Battement tendu jet, Sandra VTOLA 130 Rond de jambe par terre, Battement fondu et battement soutenu, Battement frappe, Adagio (includes battement relev lent et battement dvelopp), Grand battement jet has a special meaning and a detailed purpose.
UK: Cambridge University Press.
Fenomenoloija [Phenomenology].
Moscow: Art (in Russian).
REFEREEING All manuscripts are normally reviewed by at least two referees (in addition to the Editor).
Footnotes should not be used.
For journal articles Peterson, J., & Schmidt, A. (1999).
Gender on Ice: Proceedings of a Conference on Women in Antarctica.
London, New York: Routledge, Falmer, 184-195.
Citing computer references.
Retrieved April 3, 1995 from http://neal.ctstateu.edu/history/cite.html ALL CONTRIBUTIONS AND CORRESPONDENCE SHOULD BE ADDRESSED TO: Professor Jelena Davidova, Problems in Music Pedagogy, Daugavpils University, Parades 1-205, Daugavpils, LV 5400, Latvia.
Tel.: +371 29140287.
