Learning a new dance by watching others at a club is one example of uncommon learning.
Zimmerman (2001) reinforces this point by stating that what is important is how people relate to the music, not the specific aspects being studied within the music.
The research of Green (2002, 2006, 2007, 2008) and others (Goodrich, 2007; Heuser, 2008) confirms that students have the abilities to copy arrangements from recordings in ways that are both literal and creative.
Their research confirms that when students have a part in determining what they will be learning, the learning is more significant, meaningful and long lasting.
Review of the Literature A thorough review of the literature on informal music learning is beyond the scope of this study.
Greens work on popular music pedagogies first appeared in 2002 with the publication of How Popular Musicians Learn.
Thus, no matter how one approaches informal music instruction, it often occurs while the learner does not even realize they are learning.
Data included observations, video and audio recordings, and field notes.
As a result, students became more attentive listeners.
In one study (Green, 2008), she noted that students prefer and are more comfortable helping each other rather than asking the teacher for guidance.
This contributes to a feeling of student empowerment.
He would ask each group to find a Christmas carol or holiday song on YouTube and copy the arrangement adapting it for performance by the group in the upcoming December holiday concerts.
Insights from selective coding grounds the conclusions presented at the end.
At the time of this study, there were 40 students participating in the high school band.
DRUMMER: (To BASSIST) Is yours in standard [tuning]?
(Sings the opening lick) What was the notes?
BASSIST: (To GUITARIST) Do you need help on that part?
Counts off.
BASSIST: (To GUITARIST) Slide between them notes a little.
(To GUITARIST) You dont have to do all that part.
After each phrase, the students discussed what they had done.
There wasnt a defined leader of the group.
(Dans journal, November 10, 2009) As the concert approached, he met again with the students: I asked the group what was giving them the most problems.
	 	 13 They play the first run through.
Excluding rock songs, learning a piece by 	 	 19 ear is not necessary a strong point for me (Student B journal entry 4).
We continued working on parts and sang together with the CD.
He said, Mr. Westawski put us into groups and sent us off to practice rooms to arrange a pop song of their choice.
When I was sitting there, it was like stop!
I listen to other parts better.
Dave agreed that the challenge for him was to find ways to add value to what the students could do on their own (change in teacher perception).
How do you tap into that as a conductor knowing what they are capable of doing?
The men copied two arrangements, and the women transcribed one.
Jasons students (Interview with Jason and his students, June 1, 2010) told me that they felt a great sense of accomplishment (autonomy) upon completing their song.
One example happened at Daves school.
Many students reported that they came to realize how much is involved in creating a musical arrangement even when there was a recording to serve 	 	 25 as the model and had a new respect for the musical arrangements of others (student change of perception).
Students in their blogs, interviews and journals provided instances of ah ha moments as well.
Each teacher believed that his students would be able to complete the project and each teacher was certain that the results would be of a high level.
This may have been 	 	 26 because the teachers chose their best students to participate and in this sense the project differed significantly from Greens (2002, 2008) experiences with general music students.
Dave agreed that the challenge for him was to find ways to add value to what the students could do on their own (change in teacher perception).
How do you tap into that as a conductor knowing what they are capable of doing?
I listen to other parts better.
As a result, they had a new found respect for the music of others that they were singing or playing in the ensemble.
Specifically, informal engagements with musicking (Small, 1998) should be included along side the traditional ensemble experience with the music teacher at the core.
When students are empowered by their teachers to choose music they like, and bring music from their engagements outside the school, they have voice.
Students recognized that it was because of the fine programs to which they belonged that they acquired the skills needed to arrange their pieces.
Barrett, J. R. (2005).
Folkestad, G. (1996) Computer based creative music making.
doi:10.1017/S0265051706006887 Fornas, J., Lindberg, U., & Sernhede, O. (1995) In garageland: Rock, youth and modernity.
Martin, P. (1995).
Smithrim, K., & Upitis, R. (2004).
How hip-hop musicians learn: Strategies in informal creative music making.
