How curriculum and instruction work with these theories to promote learning and how educators view learning with respect to both theories are also reviewed.
Skinner and Watson, the two major proponents of behaviorism, studied how learning is affected by changes in the environment and sought to prove that behavior could be predicted and controlled (Skinner, 1974).
They concluded that given the right environmental influences, all learners acquire identical understanding and that all students can learn.
The ringing of the bell caused Pavlovs dog to salivate, because the dog had been conditioned to feed at this time.
Watson mirrored Pavlovs research findings in his conditioning experiment with a young child who he conditioned to fear a white rabbit by repeatedly pairing it with the loud clang of a metal bar.
Rotfeld (2007) suggested that psychologists invented behaviorism itself as a basis for theoretical explanations, prediction, and testing (p.
E-Leader Manila 2012 Skinner (as cited by Gregory, 1987) stated that the mind and mental processes are metaphors and fictions, and that behavior is a function of the biology of the organism.
Skinner was known for making audacious statements in keeping with Watson's tradition of being provocative and controversial to gain peoples attention (WGHB, 1998).
This teaching machine can be viewed as a form of early technology which can be compared to todays basic educational software.
971).
Though basic, it is easy to see the similarity between the teaching machine and many of todays educational software programs.
Skinners early work and findings with the teaching machine can be applied to modern day computer programs, they are fundamentally the E-Leader Manila 2012 same.
Piagets theory was comprised of two major elements ages and stages.
Vygotsky referred to his work as social constructivism.
This is a primary characteristic of the constructivism theory, and though positive aspects of Behaviorism in learning have emerged, there has been an ongoing shift toward more Constructivist learning situations involving problem solving (Sutton, 2003).
These schools of philosophical thought are somewhat contrived; they are merely labels developed in an attempt to show the similarities and differences among the many answers philosophers develop (Johnson, Musial, Hall, Gollnick, & Dupuis, 2008, p. 102).
Contemporary realists are behind standardized tests, serialized textbooks, and specialized curriculum for each discipline.
Realists and idealists are most closely associated with the behaviorists theory of learning, because they believe in a standardized curriculum centered on academic disciplines.
According to Morrison, Ross, and Kemp (2004), the behaviorist learning theory placed an emphasis on the effects of external conditions such as rewards and punishments in determining future behaviors of students.
This approach emphasized the acquisition of new behavior (Bednar, Cunningham, Duffy, & Perry, 1992).
In other words, behaviorists believed that the external environment contributed to the shaping of an individuals behavior.
Those who disagree with the behaviorist theory believed that this theory failed to take into consideration the influence the mind has over behavior.
Teachers, who use constructivist theory, concentrate on showing students relevance and meaningfulness in what they are learning.
These are activities that can be done asynchronously but can be a more powerful learning experience when done synchronously and collaboratively with other students and/or instructor.
John Dewey (1938) was credited for beginning the constructivist movement.
Kumar (2006) developed a constructivism oriented instructional framework to bridge the gap between theory and practice.
Teachers work with the individual students when they need extra help.
Structured assignments are directly linked to the learning objectives.
The overall philosophy of these constructivists holds that learners impose meaning on the world, and so construct their own understanding based on their unique experiences.
Conclusion E-Leader Manila 2012 Overskeid (2008) discussed how psychology was redefined in the late 1950s and the 1960s when many psychologists began practicing cognitive psychology, which examined how people problem solve behaviorism, memorize information, and use language.
Others believed that science would gain little from studying mental phenomena instead of behavior, its antecedents, and consequences.
In education today, there continues to be considerable debate as to whether teachers practice behaviorism, the dispensing of information through direct instruction or through constructivism, the practice of being facilitators of learning.
There are so many factors involved that this debate seems to fall to the choice of individual educators, and may, in fact, continue along this path as educators look toward the future of educational technology integration.
References Arts in Education Institute of Western New York (2002).
Bush, G. (2006).
Learning about learning: from theories to trends.
Camp, W. G., & Doolittle, P. E. (1999).
Retrieved January 21, 2008, from http://www.my-ecoach.com/idtimeline/learningtheory.html Chambliss, J.J.
E-Leader Manila 2012 Driscoll, M. (2005).
Gagne, R., Briggs, L. & Wager, W. (1992).
(1987).
Harman, G. (2008).
Foundations of American education: Perspectives on education in a changing world (14th ed.).
(1973).
Control: A history of behavioral psychology.
Wiley Jossey- Bass.
Rummel, Ethan.
Replies to Drs.
