Indeed, the findings show that class is positively related to omnivorousness, age is positively related to omnivorousness, being female is positively related to omnivorousness, and that whites are more omnivorous than blacks.
This theory, derived from observations made during the 1930s, presumed that popular culture was an aberration born of commercial greed and public ignorance and in essence, criticized popular culture as having harmful effects on high culture, individual consumers, and even society as a whole (Gans 1974).
In fact, over the years there has been an ever-increasing diversity of musical material produced and consumed.
Who is to say that mass necessarily means mediocrity or even vulgarity?
In today's society, therefore, mass music is definitely diverse rather than undifferentiated.
Many researchers have refuted this massification thesis as well.
Additionally, Denisoff and Levine (1972), in their study of over 900 college students in LA, reported that the respondents did not have definitive preferences for popular music.
Moreover, instead of assuming a single popular culture, Gans (1974) proposes that the number of cultures is, in his words, an empirical and a conceptual problem, to be determined in part by studies of who chooses what content and what relationships exist among content choices (p.69).
In line with Gans (1974), the musical choices one made, according to Bourdieu, would be used as cultural capital, with the higher-status groups having more cultural capital at their disposal (in terms of status) than the lower-status groups.
Cultural taste, then, would be one way for the privileged to recognize one another, while at the same time excluding others from their circles.
Over the years, there has been a shift from snob (a term coined by Peterson) to omnivore among the upper classes (Peterson & Kern 1996).
There are many plausible reasons for these findings.
Mass affluence has reduced the number of leisure activities that are exclusive to privileged elite (Roberts 1999).
Equipped with cultural variety and the rules of relevance, a person can navigate successfully in many settings (p.224).
Although based on the geographic location of various radio markets the choices will vary to some degree (for example, there are 83 country music stations to choose from in VA, while in Alaska there are only 21), many consumers can now access radio stations from all over the country and even overseas as a result of the internet.
In today's society, virtually any and every type of music is accessible in one form or another to everyone.
However, as Peterson and Simkus (1992) stress, social status is not the only determinant of taste.
This notion of powerlessness refers to the feeling of an inability to influence the forces that effect the individuals life chances (Mackey 1974).
Additionally, females were more likely to use music as secondary gratification (e.g., to improve mood, feel less alone) and as a general background activity, while males allegiance to music is central and personal (Christenson & Peterson 1988).
In this way, music becomes an expression of group identity.
For them, music has often been a way of building and maintaining group identity, of erecting boundaries separating one group from others and in turn strengthening the solidarity within a particular group.
DiMaggio and Ostrower (1990) tested the cultural-convergence model, which views differences in taste and participation between blacks and whites as residues of juridical, caste-like exclusion of blacks from educational and occupational opportunities.
whether one is a musical univore or omnivore).
Equally important, however, is that in todays society, the emergence of the cultural omnivore is a cultural expression of personal qualities that are highly valued and thus rewarded (Peterson & Simkus 1992).
However, this paper argues that age should determine not only the style of music that one prefers, but also the breadth of music that one reports to liking.
Perhaps in future research one will look at youth alienation and musical choices more in depth.
I predict that, in general, blacks will more likely gravitate towards fewer genres of music than whites as a symbolic resistance to a culture that has oppressed them throughout time.
Now, almost every type of music is generally available to everyone, not simply available to those producing or in close proximity to those producing the music (such as was the case with folk and ethnic music in early Europe and then the United States before the Industrial Revolution), or to the economically privileged (as was the case with the audience for classical music in the past).
In short, this means that initially as people age their musical preferences increase, around middle age, however, the number of preferences level off and then eventually decrease.
It may very well be the case, as I argued earlier, that the upper class need to network even more than the lower class in order to get ahead so to speak.
This was surprising to me.
Whether or not one likes a particular genre of music could mean a different thing for different respondents.
As mentioned above, one limitation of this study was that we only have a measure of what people profess to liking as opposed to what they actually consume, which could be very different.
purchase, attend concerts, etc.) Hence, it would be interesting to ask questions both about consumption as well as liking.
Cambridge University Press.
Soundtracking Everyday Life: The Use of Music in Redefining Situations.
The Arts in Class Reproduction.
pp.181-201 in Cultural and Economic Reproduction in Education: Essays on Class, Ideology, and the State, edited by M. W. Apple.
American Journal of Sociology 102 (1):217-251.
1981.
Massification Versus Differentiation: Some Trend Data from National Surveys.
1997.
Massification Revisited.
Holt, Douglas B. 1997.
Distinction in America?
Changes in Survey Procedures and Their Potential Effects on Estimates of Arts Participation; 1997 Survey of Public Participation in the Arts.
1997.
The Pursuit of Loneliness.
Van Eijck, Koen.
1997.
