The most effective schools recognised that regular, sustained experiences were essential to secure good musical progress.
Local authority music services made good contributions to the musical and personal progress of particular groups of pupils.
There was limited take-up and impact of continuing professional development (CPD) in both primary and secondary schools.
Music in schools: wider still, and wider March 2012, No. 110158 7 Continued government funding and support for music education is welcomed by Ofsted, as are the new music hubs from September 2012.
Around three quarters of these were whole-class curriculum or instrumental/vocal lessons; the remainder were ensemble rehearsals, individual or small-group instrumental lessons, or assemblies featuring music.
7. Where provision was most effective, schools ensured that good progress in singing was underpinned by regular, ongoing vocal work in the classroom as well as in assemblies.
As a result, pupils progress in improving the quality of their singing in this episode was rapid, and their musical understanding of the song was secure.
9. However, examples such as these were the exception rather than the rule.
Typically, these schools viewed singing more as a participatory activity rather than as a vehicle for promoting pupils musical understanding.
The good practice video for Churchfields Junior School includes Wider Opportunities work and can be found at this link: www.youtube.com/ofstednews.
Although they also sang the piece, they did so while also attempting to play their violins or cellos.
These two aspects of achievement were interrelated and co-dependent.
Where it was most successful, composing work was framed by well-structured, musical teaching that secured pupils understanding of the materials they were to work with.
Sixty-nine of the primary schools were able to offer data about the participation of different groups in additional tuition and extra-curricular musical activities, providing a sample base of almost 18,000 pupils.
Teaching in music was outstanding in three and good in 28 of the 90 primary schools inspected.
Inspectors considered all aspects of music teaching in the school, including regular classroom curriculum work, whole-class specialist instrumental and vocal teaching, leadership of extra-curricular activities and individual or small-group instrumental tuition.
The film can be found at this link: www.youtube.com/ofstednews.
However, the musical skills of specialist staff were not always complemented by satisfactory classroom management or by teaching skills that engaged or challenged the pupils appropriately.
Consequently, pupils made inadequate progress in developing their musical understanding.
When beckoned, she said, Miss, Ive made up my own tune for the words of Hot Cross Buns.
Around six of every 10 music A-level entries in 2011 were by boys, with boys accounting for over 80% of entries in A-level music technology.
Students with special educational needs and/or disabilities, those who were looked after, and those known to be eligible for free school meals were again less likely to be involved in additional musical activities than the general school population.
Clearly, it is important that opportunities to promote good literacy skills are exploited in all lessons.
Scrutiny of students work revealed a poor understanding of melodic structures and devices; the tunes that they had composed had little sense of shape or phrasing, and it was clear that their grasp of harmony and tonality was also weak.
Assessment was outstanding in just three and good in only 22 of the 90 secondary schools visited; it was satisfactory in 45 and inadequate in 20 schools.
100.
The most effective assessment practice observed helped students to listen more accurately to their own work, helped them identify for themselves where improvements were needed, and showed them how to improve through expert musical modelling by the teacher.
The film can be found at this link: www.youtube.com/ofstednews.
102.
When asked about their knowledge of the whole-class instrumental programmes and primary singing initiatives, few secondary school music teachers had detailed understanding of this work or, more significantly, Music in schools: wider still, and wider March 2012, No. 110158 40 how these initiatives had impacted on their students.
The film can be found at this link: www.youtube.com/ofstednews.
Music in schools: wider still, and wider March 2012, No. 110158 41 112.
23 An example of such a project can be found at: www.ofsted.gov.uk/resources/motivating-young- people-through-music-sound-it-out-community-music.
The film can be found at this link: www.youtube.com/ofstednews.
The film can be found at this link: www.youtube.com/ofstednews.
In some schools, there was no charge for tuition whatsoever; in other schools, the full cost was passed to parents.
Good leadership, whether it is in the school or from an outside partner such as a music hub, can also help by giving teachers the confidence, permission and support to take this musical approach to planning lessons.
144.
A strength in this model of curriculum planning was that it was determined by progression in musical syntax and understanding, giving the music coordinator and other teachers of music a big picture of musical progression through the curriculum.
The film can be found at this link: www.youtube.com/ofstednews.
The lesson started with a simple counting game.
Combined with the development of good listening, it can be the most effective way for students to develop their musical understanding.
The use of music technology for creative work was almost exclusively restricted to popular music styles, or to arranging or making compositions in Western art- music styles.
The film can be found at this link: www.youtube.com/ofstednews.
First, they knew that the entitlement of every child to learn to play musical instruments and to sing was not restricted to special projects or additional activities it was at the heart of a regular, ongoing music curriculum for all groups of pupils.
The film can be found at this link: www.youtube.com/ofstednews.
Where schools delegated responsibility for music education to external providers, including local authority music services, systems of monitoring and evaluation were not always sufficient to guarantee good or even satisfactory provision and outcomes.
Insufficient dialogue about the schools particular contexts, between the schools leadership and management and the visiting musicians, resulted in diminished outcomes for pupils.
In this way, the experience would be tailored and bespoke to the school and would therefore be much more effective than an off-the-shelf project.
This evidence resonates strongly with other recommendations from the Henley Review and other proposals made in the National Plan for Music Education, particularly regarding music technology and training for music education professionals.
This is why it is so important for the new music hubs to engage fully with schools in partnership.
School-based music teachers have an important part to play in achieving these priorities but, as importantly, clear direction is required from national associations, the Department for Education and Ofsted to ensure that school leaders are well informed about good practice in music education.
The focus for Ofsteds work in this area should be on the quality of teaching, leadership and management, with the aim of raising standards and increasing levels of achievement among pupils.
Music in schools: wider still, and wider March 2012, No. 110158 63 Annex A: Schools visited for this survey Primary schools inspected in the stratified sample Primary school Local authority All Saints Benhilton CofE Primary School Sutton Bampton CofE Primary School Oxfordshire Bassingham Primary School Lincolnshire Beckford Primary School Camden Blaby Stokes Church of England Primary School Leicestershire Blacklow Brow Primary School Knowsley Brackensdale Junior School Derby Brindle Gregson Lane Primary School Lancashire Burnt Yates Church of England Voluntary Aided (Endowed) Primary School North Yorkshire Burrowmoor Primary School Cambridgeshire Canon Burrows CofE Primary School Tameside Cherry Tree Primary School Hertfordshire Churchfields Junior School Redbridge Colney Heath Junior Mixed Infant and Nursery School Hertfordshire Curry Rivel Church of England VC Primary School Somerset Davies Lane Primary School Waltham Forest Devonshire Hill Primary School Haringey Donnington Wood CofE Voluntary Controlled Junior School Telford and Wrekin Dormers Wells Junior School Ealing East Ardsley Primary School Leeds Edward Bryant Primary School West Sussex Elmbridge Junior School Gloucestershire Escrick Church of England Voluntary Controlled Primary School North Yorkshire Farringdon Primary School Sunderland Fingringhoe Church of England Voluntary Aided Primary School Essex Music in schools: wider still, and wider March 2012, No. 110158 64 Glenbrook Primary School Lambeth Goldsborough Church of England Primary School North Yorkshire Greenways Primary School Stoke-on-Trent Hallwood Park Primary School and Nursery Halton Herne Junior School Hampshire High Hurstwood Church of England Primary School East Sussex Hob Green Primary School Dudley Holbrook Primary School Wiltshire Huntington Primary School York John F Kennedy Primary School Sunderland Kibblesworth Primary School Gateshead Kings Hedges Primary School Cambridgeshire Knaphill School Surrey Lawford Church of England Voluntary Aided Primary School Essex Manaccan Primary School Cornwall Moorcroft Wood Primary School Walsall Nelson Primary School Newham New Road Primary School Calderdale Normanby Primary School Redcar and Cleveland Northwood Primary School Darlington Oakwood Junior School Southampton Oatlands Community Junior School North Yorkshire Oldfleet Primary School Kingston Upon Hull, City of Parks Primary School Leicester Purford Green Primary School Essex Skirlaugh Church of England Voluntary Controlled Primary School East Riding of Yorkshire Speenhamland Primary School West Berkshire St Ambrose Catholic Primary Worcestershire St Augustines Catholic Primary and Nursery School Nottingham Music in schools: wider still, and wider March 2012, No. 110158 65 St Basils Catholic Primary School Halton St Bernadettes Catholic Primary School North Lincolnshire St Bernadettes Catholic Primary School Birmingham St Cuthbert with St Matthias CofE Primary School Kensington and Chelsea St Hughs Catholic Primary School Liverpool St John Fisher Roman Catholic Primary School Rochdale St Johns Church of England Primary School Sefton St Josephs Catholic Primary School Warrington St Josephs RC Primary School Dudley St Marks Church of England Primary School Stockport St Mary and St John CofE VA Primary School Rutland St Marys and St Josephs Roman Catholic Primary School Blackburn Blackburn with Darwen St Marys RC Junior School Croydon St Matthews School, Westminster Westminster St Patricks Catholic Primary School Lancashire St Philips Catholic Primary School, Arundel West Sussex St Pius X Roman Catholic Voluntary Aided Primary School Durham St Stephens Church of England Primary School Bury St Winefrides RC Primary School Newham Stifford Primary School Thurrock Strand-on-the-Green Junior School Hounslow Swillington Primary School Leeds The Potterhanworth Church of England Primary School Lincolnshire Tilney St Lawrence Community Primary School Norfolk Tudor Primary School Ealing Uphall Primary School Redbridge Upton-upon-Severn CofE Primary School Worcestershire Waddington All Saints Primary School Lincolnshire Wardley CofE Primary School Salford Music in schools: wider still, and wider March 2012, No. 110158 66 Wednesbury Oak Primary School Sandwell Weeton St Michaels Church of England Voluntary Aided Primary School Lancashire Westvale Primary School Knowsley Whitgreave Primary School Staffordshire Wickham Market Community Primary School Suffolk Wigmore Primary School Luton William Ford CofE Junior School Barking and Dagenham Nominated good practice primary schools visited Arthur Bugler Junior School Thurrock Christ Church CofE Primary School, Pennington Wigan Christ Church New Malden CofE Primary School Kingston upon Thames Dulwich Hamlet Junior School Southwark Faith Primary School Liverpool John Scurr Primary School Tower Hamlets St Hughs CofE Primary School Oldham St Margarets Church of England Primary School Durham Walton Holymoorside Primary School Derbyshire Secondary schools inspected in the stratified sample Acland Burghley School Camden Albany Science College Lancashire Alleynes High School Staffordshire Ashby School Leicestershire Barlby High School North Yorkshire Bartholomew School Oxfordshire Belle Vue Boys School Bradford Belvidere School Shropshire Bishop Challoner Catholic College Birmingham Brentwood County High School Essex Bushfield Community College* Peterborough Music in schools: wider still, and wider March 2012, No. 110158 67 Cams Hill School* Hampshire Canon Lee School York Chorlton High School Manchester City of London Academy (Southwark) Southwark Clifton: A Community Arts School Rotherham Cockermouth School Cumbria Costello Technology College Hampshire Cotham School* City of Bristol Dame Elizabeth Cadbury Technology College Birmingham Dorothy Stringer High School Brighton and Hove Eckington School Derbyshire Fakenham High School and College Norfolk Fernhill School Hampshire Flegg High School Norfolk Frankley Community High School Birmingham Friesland School Derbyshire Hainault Forest High School Redbridge Halton High School* Halton Hassenbrook School Specialist Technology College* Thurrock Heathfield Community College East Sussex Henry Compton Secondary School Hammersmith and Fulham High Storrs School Sheffield Highbury Fields School Islington Humphry Davy School Cornwall John Smeaton Community College Leeds King Arthurs Community School Somerset King Ecgbert School Sheffield Kings Norton Girls School and Language College* Birmingham Kingsmeadow Community Comprehensive School Gateshead Kirk Balk Community College Barnsley Music in schools: wider still, and wider March 2012, No. 110158 68 Lawnswood School Leeds Madeley Academy Telford and Wrekin Marple Hall School - A Specialist Language College Stockport Mayfield School Redbridge Minster School Nottinghamshire Nether Hall Learning Campus High School Kirklees Noel-Baker Community School and Language College Derby Norden High School and Sports College Lancashire Northampton School for Girls Northamptonshire Northfleet School for Girls Kent Pewsey Vale School* Wiltshire Plume School Essex Poltair School Cornwall Prendergast - Ladywell Fields College Lewisham Queens School* Hertfordshire Smiths Wood Sports College Solihull South Dartmoor Community College* Devon St Bedes Catholic Comprehensive School and Sixth Form College, Lancaster Durham St Edmunds Catholic School Portsmouth St Georges RC High School Salford St Gregory the Great VA Catholic Secondary School Oxfordshire St Gregorys Catholic Comprehensive School Kent St Johns Catholic Comprehensive Kent St Johns RCVA Technology School and Sixth Form Centre* Durham St Josephs College Croydon St Laurence School* Wiltshire St Marys Catholic School* North East Lincolnshire Stainburn School and Science College Cumbria The Bishop of Herefords Bluecoat School Herefordshire Music in schools: wider still, and wider March 2012, No. 110158 69 The Camden School for Girls Camden The Castle School* Somerset The Dukeries College Nottinghamshire The Emmbrook School Wokingham The Grange School Shropshire The Grange School and Sports College South Gloucestershire The Gryphon School Dorset The Hewett School Norfolk The Honywood Community Science School* Essex The Kingswood School Northamptonshire The Lakes School Cumbria The London Oratory School* Hammersmith and Fulham The Minster College* Herefordshire The Trinity Catholic School Nottingham Thornleigh Salesian College Bolton Uckfield Community Technology College East Sussex Uxbridge High School* Hillingdon Weobley High School Herefordshire Woodford County High School Redbridge Woodkirk High School* Leeds * The provider has closed or converted to an academy since the time of the visit.
Discussions with the headteacher (including consideration of how he or she manages and supports music in the school), teachers, and external partners are included, as well as showing a range of classroom and extra-curricular practice.
